everything can be stopped and nothing can be done and this is the crisis
fundamentally of the modern state to a large extent and it is the result of the
disappearance of the great issues that divided us in the past and it is a
don't see the answer now what follows from this for management let me see I
believe that in a very difficult time and I think we are back to normal which
is turbulent times smooth sailing is not normal management will have to think
through how to create well responsibility in the workforces in the
sense that the relationship I'm not saying identity that's the relationship
between the welfare of both the enterprise and the economy and that of
the employee is institutionalized. What the organs are, I don't know. Whether they're internal,
where I think with the labor forces we have now, the personnel policies we follow in which
we try to do as much as possible for the employee are becoming self-defeating. Or whether it is
through trying to bring the employee interest in the ownership of the enterprise and in its long
range success, which is organized around the pension plan, whether that becomes an institutional
basis exercised through a far more powerful board of directors. These are all possibilities,
but I think it is need to go to work inside and outside. I think there is need for organized
schizophrenia. Now what we have today is disorganized one and I don't think that's
tenable. Organized one is difficult because on the one hand this society is ready for a group
that has competence to assert its responsibility for the common weal.
I'm impressed, as you know, by a few of the things the Japanese are doing,
and nothing impressed me more than a call about what I think two days after I came home
from my last meeting here in April, I got the call from Tokyo,
seeing the chief executive officers of the 25 largest Japanese companies
will be in the West and want to spend a week with you
thinking through what is the right national policy for Japan,
considering the change in demographics.
And when I sat down with them, I said,
uh have you thought through what you're in business want to do and should do and just
said with one voice that is the wrong place to start that comes second what is right for japan
because we have to give leadership and then we think through how they we fit in mitsubishi and
mitsui and sumitomo into the national policy and that has been long been the basic strengths of
the Japanese and the reason why Japanese business mostly gets the policies it wants because it
doesn't start out with the policies it wants. And I think we have to learn that in a society in which
almost all traditional leadership groups have become the victims of factionalism,
it is both an opportunity and a need for business leadership
to speak for the producer interest in society
especially at a time when we very clearly are going to shift
from consumer dominated to producer
I wouldn't say dominated but to economics
that again realize that money doesn't grow on trees
and productivity doesn't grow on trees
and that the essence of economics is not to devise better ways of shaking the tree
but better ways of growing it.
And then I think the time is ripe for the producer interest
to reassert itself as a national interest.
and to think through and speak about national policies, and it's singularly lacking.
Let me see if you want an example of what not to do, for which business is going to pay very dearly.
In the last 10 years, since 1969 precisely, one and only two groups in society have had their incomes largely shielded against inflation.
There were social security recipients and top management people.
Top management people because of the 50% maximum tax on earned income.
Everybody else, everybody who makes less than $100,000 1969 money,
has seen his tax rate go up much faster than inflation.
So anything that was done to protect his income against inflation
was to a large extent offset by income tax ratcheting.
You all know what I'm talking about.
Except for the people who own more than $100,000 per family income,
about half of whom are executives of business.
The other half are doctors, lawyers, and so on.
And I have yet to hear a single man in a senior executive position
scream about the gross injustice and inequity
to his associates. Ladies and gentlemen, that is
frivolous irresponsibility, and we are going to pay very heavily
for it. They all said, let's not rock the boat, because
God forbid if we do, somebody nasty in Congress
will say, let's repeal the maximum tax.
And that risk was there, but one is paid to take these
risks, and one cannot any longer duck them. And this is what I'm talking about. That is
thinking through the responsibility as a national leader with competence, with a producer interest
in one's charge. And at the same time, I think there is no doubt that business will have
to organize, and is organizing, by the way, to become another faction.
I loathe fashions.
Everything said about fashions in the Federalist Papers is all too true.
But neither you nor I are in control of the universe.
Even in everyday, we are less in control of the universe.
And then has to be able to survive.
and if the streets are dominated by street gangs
then one has to organize one's own
with all the danger attendant there too
let me say the mafia has its origin
in legitimate need for protection
and it degenerated
pretty fast, a couple of hundred years
but it was a survival necessity
necessarily mismanaged
by every invader
And so one has to organize in a new fashion and use one's veto power to block things.
So business, I think, in this new political environment has two quite different tasks, or three.
The task of creating a constituency again.
Most of the things I see you do in your public relations, in your lobbying, are simply futile.
They assume that you have that small business constituency in Main Street.
That constituency is gone, and your engineers and your accountants have not taken its place,
and you have to organize, except the fact that 90% of most old Americans today are employees,
and that 90-plus percent or more educated people are employees.
One goes to school to get the job with General Foods.
One doesn't go to school to be independent.
And on the other hand, General Foods could not exist but for the fact that the schools use social society's money
to train people for General Foods.
General Foods wouldn't be able to pay their training expense.
and you are still
appealing to the corner
druggist who even if he
exists is simply such
a tiny minority as to be
meaningless
but the only small
businessmen that have political
clout in state capitals
are the undertakers
the only effective lobby in California
and
their interests
and ours fortunately do not
run parallel. And so the rest are your employees, and especially your educated ones, and we
have not built that constituency. We have not made overt the links and bonds we have
with them, and that is a real, we have not given them responsibility, and nobody has
learned, really understanding, without the responsibility and the chance to make
mistakes. And then we have to learn that this is a nation badly in need of a
voice it can trust, that is not starting out with we want, we need, but with the
country the world needs, the country the world wants, badly need, because there is
none today not the one and finally at the same time if the gangs and the
toughs roam the street you better organize yourself and get a fairly
potent weapon and learn how to operate as a faction and these are the
requirements of a political environment that for better or worse I happen to
to think it's for the worst, is not the environment of 1920, of 1930, and not even of 1950, but
far more akin to the environment of 1740. If you want to understand politics, will you
please not read 19th century political scientists? God help you, don't read 20th century ones.
When only they're set to get a PhD.
And will you go back to the 18th century?
And if anybody's interested in political science,
there's only one book today
that a business leader should read to understand.
It has a very peculiar title.
It's called The Patriot King.
It was written in 1736 in England.
That's the only text for this time.
We are back in the 18th century in politics.
And we have to learn again
how one behaves in such an environment
so that we can rebuild
a true political community.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
We finally get to subway station or what?
Within reason.
Anything before 12.
