in any modern developed economy, based largely on the fact that we perversely insist on living
beyond age 45, and therefore make provisions for the future, which made no sense when you
expected to die at age 45, and the only sensible provision was to have enough sons.
That nobody has ever looked upon as capital formation, though it is, believe me.
So you will have a continuing pressure on capital formation and continuing high costs
of capital.
And yet less capital will have less and less power.
The power will increasingly lie in the ability to organize the knowledge resources and to
market.
And this, I think, is a new structure, which I do not pretend to understand.
But when I look at my friends in business, I don't think they're organized for it yet.
And we are quite rightly putting our chief financial officer into a key position, and
you better stay there.
And when you talk of top management, increasingly the chief financial officer is not the subordinate
of the chief executive, or if he is, the company is mismanaged.
He has very largely a power centre of his own and has his own relationship to the board
with our new audit requirements and so on.
But I think we will have to do very much the same in respect to the mobilisation of the knowledge of the company.
Marketing is largely knowledge and not investment.
The knowledge resources, I think the organisation of tomorrow will be far more of a team
even than it is today, precisely because one will not be able to control that affiliate in Germany
through capital, or that subcontractor in Nigeria through capital,
but only through design and management and marketing.
And I think this is a structural change which I can kind of divine, but cannot put my hands on.
And if you ask me how do we do it, I'm willing to say retain me for five years
and we'll make enough mistakes to know what not to do.
But I'm not yet willing to say that I or anybody else knows how to do it.
And I think, therefore, that the international economy all will force us into rethinking again
how one structures top management.
We talked yesterday about other demands on top management out of the political arena.
I think we are at the beginning of 10 years of very hard work on rethinking the task, the qualifications, the structure of and the preparations for top management.
A job which we thought we had done around 1960, I think we are going to have to start all over again because the environment has changed so drastically, both domestically and worldwide, from the one which we assumed when we drew up the last blueprint and the buildings we then constructed will, I think, become well about as unlivable as the hotel in which I'm staying now,
which was built in 1920 on the assumption that there are abundant servants.
And I think we will have to redesign our new assumptions.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you very much, Peter. This doesn't work, does it?
You have a strong voice.
For the benefit of the audience, when I mentioned earlier that there was a big stack of questions here,
there were yesterday's questions.
So after hearing what you just heard, you may, as I have, develop some questions which you may address to Peter Drucker or Irving Friedman later.
My next task is to introduce Irving Friedman, who has a rather long and interesting and important career in some of the most important international monetary organizations in the world.
For 18 years, he was in the International Monetary Fund and graduated from there as the head of the international economic staff
and moved, I guess, across the street, or maybe in 1964 it was in the same building, to another wing, to the World Bank,
where he served for 10 years from 1964 to 1974
and again was the head of the economic research staff in the World Bank.
In 1974, he became a real banker
and went to a bank which had a significant amount of exposure in developing countries,
at least that was a rumor, called the Citicorp,
and recently moved to the first Boston Corporation
where he is currently Senior International Advisor, Irving Friedman.
