just say briefly that I'll turn it to you, Peter, on this last one. I don't agree with that last
mode of thinking. I mean, General Motors is not more powerful than South Dakota.
South Dakota will be here long after General Motors is gone. And in any conflict between
South Dakota and General Motors, South Dakota is more likely to win. What is the power of General
Motors? I mean, what is the power of Chrysler? I mean, we could have had a discussion about Ford
two years ago, what does the power afford? There's no power there in the political sense.
It has the large corporation, despite what Ken Galbraith says, is to a very large degree a
prisoner of the market. It's not free to do all that many things. It doesn't have that much power.
There is a difference between economic behavior and political behavior.
Political behavior, you are, or at least supposed to be, within the realm of freedom to do things that you want to do.
And economic behavior, to some degree, or to a very large degree, you don't have that freedom.
You have to cope with what the market dictates.
So I don't like the notion of politicizing the large corporation by saying, in effect, you're a state within a state.
you're a mini-government,
and you should start thinking like a mini-government
because if they start thinking like a mini-government,
then they'll become a branch of government.
And we have enough branches of government.
I think that Irving is right and he is wrong.
He is absolutely right in saying that nothing is more dangerous
than for any institution to confuse authority and responsibility.
And that, let me see, the one who wants to, not doesn't want to,
but if he succeeds, which I don't think he will,
would make the corporation our master happens to be Ralph Nader.
Ralph Nader is not an enemy of big business.
By claiming that the corporation should be responsible for everything, he wants to give it ultimate authority, since one cannot have responsibility without authority, and I am not willing to give General Motors or anybody else a great deal of authority.
And the right thing is to say that institutions should stick to their authority
and not claim responsibility beyond it.
And the job of a business is to make goods and services at a price the customer is willing to pay
and to form the capital the economy needs for tomorrow, for the jobs of tomorrow.
and that's enough and anything beyond that, it is your patient right.
And that is even more conservative in the old sense than Irving is.
And at the same time, in a pluralist society, and ours in this century has become one,
no matter what existing political theory still says or sees,
and it still sees a liberal state without institutions of 1850,
In a pluralist society, no society has ever survived unless the individuals in leadership positions took leadership responsibility.
And so you have a built-in problem.
On the one hand, if GM or the Citibank or anybody else starts to act like a power, they will very rapidly be disabused of this conceit. Very rapidly. They have no power. They are prisoners of the market on the one hand.
And the most minute political power can discipline them very easily.
And on the other hand, if the people who are at the head of these institutions,
who are the only leadership groups we have in society, are heads of institutions.
This, by the way, is why I don't believe in the power of the intellectuals.
They make a lot of noise, but they have no power base. No.
And they make an enormous amount of noise, no one more than I do, but that's still not the power base.
The confusion between noise and power is endemic in this society, but believe me, a media event is still only a media event.
And so if the leadership people, leadership groups, do not say we are visible, we matter, we have to give witness in the old term, I think that the society cannot survive.
It has a built-in conflict, and no pluralist society has ever resolved it.
But if the leadership people do not,
noblesse oblige did not mean to be generous.
It meant to give leadership precisely because you were visible.
And if they don't do it, what other leadership groups are there
except the leaders of our institutions?
This is a society of organizations
When 90% of the educated people, and that figure comes out of Irving Kristol's magazine,
the public interest, so it must be right.
When 90% work for institutions, not for corporations,
then the leaders of the institutions are the only leadership groups we have.
And if they do not see themselves as responsible for that position and do not live up to it,
then neither they nor the society can survive.
Yes, General Motors better stick to making rust-proof cars,
which they don't do at present.
But the people at the head cannot do what Alfred Sloan still tried to do,
who said that I have no authority,
and therefore I cannot possibly take responsibility.
I'm quoting him, he said that to me.
That was in 1944, and I think he had a strong moral position.
I think today, with no other leadership group around,
you better accept the fact that, like any other leadership group before,
our business leadership cannot get out of what is an existential tragedy, basically,
an unresolvable conflict between authority, which it doesn't have, and responsibility, which it must accept.
That's a very moralist point of view, in case you haven't noticed.
It's a nice formulation.
Boze Irving, Crystal, and I ended up teaching at business schools
because Boze Irving and I, I think, sneakily suspected they are the only real schools of theology around.
I think, for the moment, this is one of the last gasps of the 1960s.
It may change later in the 1980s, but at the moment, the economic problem is the big problem.
And those are the issues of, quote, an age of affluence, unquote.
But that age of affluence seems to have vanished somehow before we all got a chance to enjoy it.
And in an age of scarcity or an age of difficulty,
those are not the issues that are going to concern Congress or the public.
And it's interesting, you know, the New York Times wrote up Ralph Nader's day in Washington
in the business section.
This was extraordinary.
I think this is probably the time to make a public issue of Ralph Nader's stock,
but which one always does, you know, when a company has reached the peak earnings.
And, no, seriously, I think we can anticipate that in economics,
economics are concerned with productivity and supply, and in politics are concerned
with national survival in a singularly dangerous and nasty international world. And then those
concerns may get a great deal of publicity, but I don't think that they're going to get
much more than that.
It is...
We better repeat the question.
Yeah.
Well, if I understand the question of the last part of the question,
anyhow, it was the fact that it does seem to be a fact
that the governmental bureaucracy of this country
is much more adversarial in its attitude toward business
than, say, not only in Japan, but in Western Europe.
And is this fact...
what is the question about it you take that yes uh the question is why do our bureaucracy
strictly adversary in its view of business and the rest of the world it isn't now this
has long historical tablets but believe me fundamentally being a continental economy
the only one uh we for 200 years managed our affairs on the assumption that there is no life
on this planet outside the United States, which other countries were never fortunate
to indulge in.
And we very rapidly get to the point where we realize that we are not immune, not isolated.
Though, believe me, in this country nobody yet quite sees this.
When you listen to people discussing health care, you are given purely American explanations
Nobody seems to know that countries in which a payments mechanism is exactly different from ours and exactly what is being advocated, let's say, by Senator Kennedy, have the same explosion of health care costs, though the American explanations can't be true.
Nobody seems to realize that the countries that had no Vietnam War and no racial problems had earlier student unrest and more student unrest than we had sorted in France and in Japan.
So we are still thinking in terms of an isolated U.S.
But it's changing very rapidly, and you will very rapidly see perhaps an excessive reaction to the realization that we are very much in a world that is very dangerous, and that therefore the fundamental basic attitudes, which are already changing.
Ten years ago, our response to Chrysler would have been a very different one, for better or worse.
So I think if you want to know what American politics will look like ten years hence,
to a large extent we will have become far more like a European country and far less of an exception,
simply because our politics since Jefferson were based on the assumption
that somehow the outside world is a non-event as far as American politics is concerned.
And that's no longer tenable.
The age of both internationalism and isolationism,
both of which assume that we are alone in this world, that age is over.
I don't know the five factors.
I can never remember the five causes of the Civil War.
I'd always go blank
when that question appeared
what was the second part
none of the above
no I think that
in the first place
perhaps
it's a good idea to look at your company
and not at the company
to answer these questions
what are the most important things
for your company
because I don't think the general answers
will get you to action
And secondly, perhaps, yes, basic assumptions we have all been making about the economy, both domestic and international, about the society, about the political system, are open to serious re-examination.
We'll do some of it tomorrow in the economy.
But I think answers could be very glib,
and if you were to live by them, you'd come across very fast.
Do you agree?
I agree.
I think this is a situation in transition
when there's not try to come out with that kind of conclusion.
That leaves it to the historian.
One does it after the event.
at 18th, 19th
magazines.
But you're getting down to reading again.
And, of course, that's my favorite way of
being in touch with the outside
world. I think it's even better
than television.
But it doesn't beat teaching.
I'm sorry? It doesn't beat teaching.
I think one learns most by teaching.
Well, we can't all teach. Some of us have to learn
without teaching.
No.
Really, we're talking about
a certain degree of bookishness
which of course
our business community or any business
community has never had to this day
I would assume that if you're interviewing
a young executive for a job
and he comes walking in carrying
the woman's room which she's in the process
of reading you might think he's not quite the right
man for the job I mean
you don't want young executives to read novels
he comes in reading the latest
tome on the American economy
he might take it more seriously
This goes back, it's not American,
goes back 200 years.
Novel reading was always a woman's job,
or it still is, as a matter of fact.
Most novels in this country are still bought by women.
Most books in this country are still bought by women.
If you're the publishing business, as I was for many years,
you'd discover that.
Businessmen read business magazines.
They read memoranda.
They don't even read many business magazines.
Half of the businessmen who read the Wall Street Journal
don't even read the editorial page,
which I take personal offense at.
But as I say, the habit of reading reflectively atrophies if it's not used.
And since business does sweep you up into decision-making all the time under great stress,
the intellectual muscles for reflective reading tend to atrophy.
And I don't know what quite to do about it, but I do think it's a problem.
And if anyone can figure out how to cope with that problem, I personally would be very grateful.
I don't think that you necessarily need to keep up with the outside world.
I think you need to keep up with your own inside world much more.
And my urgent advice to anybody is not to have a reading list enough to learn economics and not even to teach,
but to have one real, genuine, major, non-job-related interest.
And that may be playing the cello in a spring quartet.
That is important.
Not golf, surely.
What?
Not golf.
If you are good enough, why not?
Something in which you are more than just a dilettante,
in which you take it seriously enough to work it.
because the important thing, believe me, the human race starts with you and not
with your subordinates, and it starts with you and not with Mr. Carter. So the
most important thing is to make sure that you don't atrophy and grow. But that
means you and not I and not he and not she. What is it that you need so that you
stay alive and keep on growing and that you that the aging process remains
confined to the legs and stops short at the neck
