and whether or not that does not make it difficult.
Care to add anything on Eurodollars?
No, I'm just learning.
Well, I do not pose as a China expert,
and I'm not even, despite having lived most of this century,
an expert on revolutions,
so this is probably the one thing one learns in this century.
But it seems to me quite unlikely
That the present policy of forced draft...
And it is, I think, reasonably clear that Chinese agriculture, and that's 90% of China,
is in worse shape than it was in the 50s.
That there was a short-lived recovery after the Civil War was over and the fighting stopped,
And then the productivity is not going up.
If anything's going down, the communes don't work.
They never do.
Their regime is politically committed to them, however.
And I would say, if you ask what is the most likely scenario,
it is that within 10 years you have a return to an extreme of Stalinism
as the only way, terror as the only way to hold it together or a collapse into
warlords. But I do not, I think the chances of the present trapeze wire
balance working, well how many, how long can you walk the higher wire? Ten minutes?
Fifty minutes? I don't think you can walk it 15 years. Would you?
That's not what I said, I said that all countries won't be rich.
At the risk of sounding like somebody about to enter the next primary, which I am not,
let me say that there is very little proof to the Washington article of the creed that
oil is the cause of our inflation.
I would imagine you would agree very little.
Fundamentally, this is the scapegoat who just happens to be popular,
and we have a long list of such scapegoats,
big steel, big labor,
and inflation is caused by government fundamentally.
But there is very little doubt
that the hike in petroleum prices
hit the rapidly developing countries very hard.
We in the developed world,
I think I'm going to make myself unpopular,
I don't know whether we, on balance, benefited from OPEC or paid a little,
but fundamentally we put things from one pocket into the other.
Where do they put their money?
Either into deposits in the developed world,
or the only thing of my prediction that hasn't come true when OPEC came on,
I said, finally the French will find the market for the Concorde.
he was over optimistic
which I really am
but Kuwait you know
you've got 50 square miles of sand
absolute dryness
ideal place to store concords
but they bought everything else
and basically in terms of purchasing power
They don't get more money now than they got in 1973 in terms of purchasing power,
both because the dollar is worth half of what it was then
and because in terms of capital goods, which they mostly buy,
the price increases have been much faster than the rate of dollar depreciation.
So they don't get very much more.
They have, however, an enormous amount of liquidity.
they don't know what to do with, where they don't have population.
And frankly, I'm not an economist.
I'm a way of an old semi-historian.
And if there's one lesson in history,
it's that wealth that isn't being put to productive use
is being expropriated very fast,
either by a gang of bandits
or by the people, you know, that old story of the man, the rich man's son who had the money
who went into partnership with the poor man's son who had the knowledge
and ten years later the rich man's son had the experience and the poor man's son had the money
and that's the way it goes
and I do not believe that there is an exception to that rule
and that that money will be a great blessing for countries without population, without skill, without willingness and ability to work.
I think they're only going to lose it sooner or later.
The only question is whether it will be a horrible end or a whimper, but I don't think there is a possible exception to this.
In fact, this is not the lesson of morality, but of history.
Assuming you think there's a need to change it.
Let me say productivity we have had.
A hundred years ago, not quite, but almost a year,
in the last unfinished volume of Das Kapital,
Marx predicted the imminent demise of the system
because of the inexorable law of the decreasing productivity of capital.
And when he meant imminent, he meant imminent,
because in a letter in which he was asked to explain the term,
he said, I will not see it, I am already 70,
but Friedrich Engels, who is 20 years younger, will live to see it.
So that meant before 1900.
And that was just the time.
And he, in that sense, only said what every economist of the 19th century,
almost everyone, except a few heretics, would have considered axiomatic.
And just at that time, as is common with predictions of economists,
things turned around, and the secular increase in the productivity
both of labor and of capital began of labor in this country,
where in those very years Frederick Taylor discovered
that there is an alternative to working harder, which is working smarter.
And in Europe at that time, the first modern banker, George Siemens of the Deutsche Bank,
discovered that one can work on the productivity of money.
And as a result of those two, for a hundred years, we had a steady increase in productivity
to the point where when I was a very young man and allowed to sit in the corner in the
Keynes seminar, Keynes, when being asked why is there no productivity in your model, we
didn't say model in your system, said, because you can't take the continuing increase in
productivity for granted as long as the economy is stable.
And we know this ain't true.
Around 1860, productivity began to turn down in all developed countries, by the way, of
all resources, of money, of key physical resources and of people. And we don't know the reasons
or you can speculate whether it's a shift to the service economy or whether that's because
all of your good people got MBAs, which I think is a very likely cause. And I don't
know why. But since it happened, most in the Soviet Union where they have no MBAs,
I think we can rule out this explanation and continue running this school.
And so, whatever it is, we have had now what is more than a cyclical decline in productivity.
And the rate at which they are going down, if you plot that it is on log-log paper, they would all look the same.
There is not much difference.
There is only one exception.
The productivity of labor has been going up in one country, that's Belgium.
for a very simple reason.
They have such an insane law on layoffs
that nobody hires anybody.
And as a result, Belgium is so grotesquely understaffed
that the productivity is going up.
But I don't think that's a shining example of social policy either.
And we have to go to work and reverse it.
But there is no real difference.
The Japanese started from a much higher increase in productivity of labor, by the way.
Productivity of capital in Japan is not particularly good.
It's poor.
There, the Germans are much better, and the French are better still.
But we are all going down at about the same rate, and we are still not bottoming out.
Capital, I think we are beginning to, capital is becoming so scarce and expensive that we
are beginning to be a little better at putting it to work, but not so you notice it much.
So this is a great job to be done.
And we know one thing, macroeconomics do not create productivities.
are created microeconomically by the likes of you in your place of business and not by
the great white father in the Federal Reserve Board. That much we do know. As to savings
rates, let me say the last few years I have been doing the kind of things I was once trained
to do, which is to take popular assumptions and reduce them to quantitative terms and
plotting them, and you get some very interesting things. One question I ask myself is, what
in a period of secular inflation is an inflation-proof investment? There are only two. If you have
enough time, meaning 80 years, then first-rate art. Since 1600, or a little before, when
Leonardo da Vinci invented art as an investment, and he actually did.
Art has been the best investment, simply because despite the great activity of forgers,
the supply of old art is limited.
