next week and most of you can read so why don't you read it in this book got
it so you have a comment opposed to the state well I'm not sure what's worse the
merger between Exxon and HEW or Burt Lance as director of the budget I don't
don't know which is worse. Neither of them strike me as tempting prospects.
You did a very good job, Spirit Lance.
I have nothing against Spirit Lance, but occasionally I have daydreams, and the next
incoming president will abolish the Council of Economic Advisers, the Bureau of the Budget,
and HEW, but I don't think it'll come to pass.
But no, it isn't that large companies have a bias in favor of government, but that they
are less endangered by it.
And any government is basically hostile to the smaller business because it's a nuisance,
and also because it's not respectful.
Here you are in OSHA, and you have a specialist on cadmium poisoning, and he has to find cadmium
specialists.
And here you run a company with 600 employees, you don't even have anybody in charge of relations
with OSHA, let alone somebody in charge of cadmium.
And so when that cadmium man hits town, he has no one to talk to.
And so you are automatically in violation, and you think it's funny, it isn't.
And he goes to General Motors and says, somebody in charge of Cadmium, they can't afford it.
And so there are no small governments, and so this is one of the problems all of you
you know, with your staff, people in your large company.
Here is a fellow in the personnel department of your very large company
who is an expert on employee motivation.
And when he goes out to the division,
first he expects the general manager who will have a day to discuss motivation.
And secondly, he expects the division to have a motivation specialist.
And that's one of the problems with the staff department in large companies.
This is why I don't like central office staffs, as some of you know.
And so, but big government definitely finds smaller business very difficult to work with,
and so has a very strong bias.
But except the fact that if you nationalize large companies, you perpetuate them.
And except the fact that large companies do not have a particularly good life expectancy,
unless they are nationalized.
The half-life of large companies is not very long,
and the last 30 years have been deceptive.
They've been years of great tranquility.
The next 30 years, I would say,
if you do not nationalize large companies,
you will see a lot of Chrysalis,
and the place is going to be taken by new trees
that come up in the forest,
And if you want new trees, old trees have to top it.
And if you nationalize them, you cannot nationalize large companies
and hope to maintain a free economy and a free society
simply because you cannot have new growth.
So you cannot.
The moment you nationalize them, you underwrite them in perpetuity.
That is a danger.
And if you don't nationalize them,
My guess would be by the year 2010, of the present Fortune 1000, fewer than 200 or 300 will still be around,
or certainly be around the Fortune 1000.
I don't see very many companies in there that are likely to grow in the next 30 years,
and at least 100 or 200 where I'm quite certain they're past their peak.
So now is the time where you will see pressure to nationalize large companies, resist it.
We need the metabolism of a healthy economy, and for the new to be born, the old one has to die, except it.
I don't know. I mean, this is very much a question, have you stopped beating your wife, to which there is no answer.
I think we have a first, not very new situation, but aggravated, in which in the political process itself, the premium on not offending small splinter groups has become so great that it is very hard to have a policy.
Any policy basically offends more than it attracts.
And that's certainly not a new factor.
That's the old danger of factionalism.
It's not a new, it's a very old one,
which a political party was invented to offset,
and for a little more than a century did.
And I think it's sobering to realize that the political party
which was invented around 1800, is not a perennial part of the political process and cannot,
in genuine pluralism, really do its work. And so then you need somebody who can establish
himself as representing at least a major interest. You know, if you look at the American government
Up till the World War II, when we created a new agency, really the last one was still
HEW, it was meant to present a major interest.
And since then, we have created agencies that are special purpose interests, special purpose
agencies for a single cause, and that is a radical change.
then it is very hard to find anybody who is not seen as either being bland or being power hungry.
And then I think there is both an opportunity but also a need for people who can relate the common
good, two major interests again, which our parties were created to do and don't do anymore.
And I'm not saying this is forever. I hope this is a disease that will pass. But the
history of political processes is not very encouraging. Once you have the kind of situation
you have, you need new integrators. The old ones don't come back. I think the political
party is unlikely to be revived in its 19th century and early 20th century role. The role
it's had, perhaps from the Rippon Congress that created the Republican Party until John
F. Kennedy, be revived in the role as the integrator of a national consensus. I don't
see it. Always existed. Except the fact that there ain't no such thing as profit. And stop
talking about it. It's the only cost of staying in business, which none of you earn today.
Not one of you earns the costs of capital, as far as I can see. And then in inflationary
pay it, not one of you can. But as long as you keep on talking about profit, don't believe
that other people will accept the fact that these are legitimate and necessary costs.
So if I look at your companies and try to figure out what your real costs of staying
in business are, they are between two or three times the amount of surplus of present
revenue over present outgo you have and so instead of saying we have had another
ban a year if you begin by saying we again have not earned the costs of
staying in business we again have not made our contribution to the costs of
the jobs of tomorrow maybe that's the first step towards sanity so life was
I simply do not. I think you are generalizing from the most unusual short-term period anti-academicians are in for the worst kind of fall they've ever had. The next 20 years, the American academia has no influence, will lose power and prestige, and will become bitter and rancid.
Goodness, you're an optimist.
simply because it's being bypassed, and bypassed by the young.
We need our new humanities very badly.
The young know it.
They know, look, I'm an older teacher than Irving,
who is a newcomer to teaching in that sense,
and the last liberal arts curriculum I largely helped design in 1940,
and it was the last one in which you could still take the traditional disciplines
and parade them as humanities.
Now we have to recast it again,
especially as the constituency we then had
that kept the humanities alive for the last 30 years,
namely the young women.
They all want to go into work today
and they are in rebellion against the liberal arts.
Far more so, oh, against the ill-digested bouquet of old stale flowers.
These are now not sources of knowledge anymore.
They are sources of information.
And so I think the crisis of the liberal arts is the most severe one.
And the influence on the young is nil, on a very small, very vocal group.
But I would not, I'm not a bit interested.
I was interested in academia 30, 40 years ago, and it has abused its power and muffed its chance, and I would stop worrying about it.
and Mr. Crystal and Mr. Pope is a little bit further.
