give a dare about the company and sometimes they don't know what the company makes there's only
one way you're going to get them interested in the company and that's not by telling them how
interesting you are and having the picture of the ceo on the annual report uh you've got to make it
financially worth their while and i came up with a very simple suggestion which was for differential
dividends depending on how long you have owned the stock uh actually i said stock dividends
differential stock dividends for every year or two years or three years or whatever for every
period of time that you own the stock you get an a stock dividend which those who have owned
the stock for only shorter periods of time do not get a great deal of interest in this proposal
because it does make sense i mean over a period of years you build up people who if they sit with
the stock to begin with are pretty much protected against loss that is if they are the recipients
of differential stock dividends,
advantageous stock dividends.
Over a period of 10 years,
in effect, their purchase price
has been reduced by 30%, 40%,
even regardless of the cash dividends they receive.
And that pretty much protects them
against any decline in the price of the stock,
and that means they're never going to be
wildly unhappy with you.
And of course, if the stock goes up,
they're going to be very, very happy indeed.
So the analytical basis is very clear.
And I spoke to the heads of several of the largest corporations in the company on this matter,
and they said, that's a very interesting idea.
Let's see if we can do it.
And they put their lawyers on it naturally, and naturally, with what results you know.
Whenever a corporate CEO doesn't want to do anything,
he—whenever he wants to cave in or not do anything, he consults counsel.
And I began to receive all sorts of learned documents explaining why this was very difficult
under SEC regulations and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
And finally, at one point, going on for nine years, I had really—I had told the idea
to them, thinking, it's there, baby, let them run with it.
I'm not going to launch a campaign for a stockholder constituency.
And at one point, only about a year ago, I got terribly irritated at the fact that nine
years had passed and nothing had happened.
And so I wrote to Harold Williams, and I said, I want an official opinion.
I know Harold.
I said, I want an official opinion from you.
Is there an SEC problem in this or not?
And Harold Williams sent it around to his staff, and he sent me a very legalistic document.
Turns out there's no SEC problem at all with differential stock dividends.
There may be problems at the state level with state legislation.
If there are such problems, and even then, no one seems to be quite sure, but they're
easily solved.
I mean, what state legislature is not going to benefit investors at the expense of speculators?
It would be, I think, a very popular move.
Why shouldn't they let corporations do that if corporations want to do it?
The sad truth, and I have come to this conclusion most reluctantly, is that the reason it isn't
happening is not because it's difficult, not because there are legal hurdles, because the
last thing in the world that CEOs want is an active, concerned, interested stockholder
constituency. I think, I suppose, a CEO, every night before he goes to sleep, has many nightmares.
One of them would be to wake up in the morning and find his office full of stockholders.
And this is so, and it's understandable. It's like a professor waking up in the morning and
findings house full of students. I mean, we have those nightmares too. But in the end, if you take
seriously your role as a part of a political faction or as a political faction contending
with other political factions, you have to take seriously the responsibility of organizing your
potential strength. And it seems to me sad and negligent that corporations should have failed
to explore this idea more seriously than they have, because I do think that over a period of
time, it would be very, very useful to them. I also think there's so many other things that
corporations can and should do. I don't think, and here I disagree, I have to say I really
disagree with Peter. I don't want to see American corporations sit down with Peter Drucker or with
me or anybody and say, don't tell us what's good for the corporation. Tell us what we should do
that's good for the country. Please. And business is for business. Businessmen have a basic trained
incapacity to understand politics well, because in business, the whole mode of business is
different from the mode of politics. Business is a decision-making activity, practical activity
of a decision-making kind. It doesn't matter whether decision-making is hierarchical or
consensual, but it's a decision-making activity. Politics is not a decision-making
activity. It's an activity in which you rarely get the opportunity or the pleasure of making
a decision. Most of the time, it is a negotiating activity, which is, incidentally, why lawyers tend
to be quite good at it and have played such a prominent role in modern democratic politics.
I think that corporations coping with this new environment and this environment that will
persist for quite a while, really have to think
of changing, of not only trying to secure a
solid base with a vested interest
in the corporations, and I don't think the pension funds will provide that
because the pension funds involved in the corporation is consistent
with any kind of management of the corporation, and it's
consistent with socialized corporations, with Ralph Nades corporations
as well as the ones that exist.
And I really am most interested in a corporation
as a bulwark of a free society.
Even the least admirable corporations are that,
just as I agree, I think the proliferation of churches
and religious institutions in this society
are bulwarks of a free society.
I don't agree with all of them, obviously.
I only agree with one.
And I don't even like some of them.
But never mind.
The fact that they're there is very important.
And the fact that they exist as independent centers of power is very important.
Therefore, I think it's very important that corporations continue to exist as independent sources of power.
For this to happen, however, vested interests will have to be created.
I think corporate leadership is going to be attentive to anything.
I think it should be more attentive to small business.
Without the buttressing of small business, small business has the political strength.
You want to get something through Congress, don't go to the top CEOs.
Go to those local undertakers, those local druggists, those local, you forgot one very important small business group,
those local automobile dealers.
Not this year, perhaps.
But the richest man in town is usually the local automobile dealer, not the plant manager of a major factory.
These are the people with influence.
These are the people who are the business establishment in local communities, and they are the important ones.
If business leaders find that difficult to do, corporate leaders, then go for a stockholder constituency.
In addition, of course, there is the whole question of how you communicate with other factions in society
or with other potential allies or potential adversaries.
I really think business communications are an absolutely terrible state,
largely because they have been handled mainly by personal relations, which are out of date, as Peter says,
or by public relations, which is not the name of the game today.
Public relations is an activity whereby you try to persuade journalists to think well of you.
Not a very productive activity at the moment.
And it was only a productive activity when journalists didn't care what they wrote about business.
It's only a productive activity when journalists and publishers were bribed by business, to put it very bluntly.
The corporation has to have a sense of its communications with its employees.
Corporations don't share problems with employees.
Very interesting.
They boast of their accomplishment, but corporate leadership, corporate management,
hates sharing problems with anyone, including, of course, stockholders.
It's interesting.
I've been interested in the automobile situation.
Now, American automobile companies really have been disadvantaged by government regulations vis-a-vis the foreign imports.
There's just no question about that, all sorts of government regulations.
But at no point that I have been able to determine has the management of corporations been going down to their workers and saying,
look, this is the problem, and explaining in great detail why we're not doing well.
I don't believe Chrysler ever did that to its employees, explaining why we're having the problems we're having.
I don't expect them to confess their sins of lousy management.
That would be too much to expect.
But at least to explain why the government regulations were having that particular impact upon Chrysler.
I don't believe there was any effort to communicate to employees in that way.
Corporate leaders don't like communicating problems,
but communicating problems are what really is interesting.
No one's interested in just success stories.
Problems, particularly if they're gonna affect your life
and your job and your career, are very interesting indeed.
I mean, I don't understand why drug companies
aren't explaining to their employees
some of the problems they have
with the Food and Drug Administration.
They shouldn't, people should know this.
And similarly with every industry,
all of which has enormous problems
with foreign competition perhaps,
but always with government, no effort is made to,
I won't even use the word educate,
but just simply to inform their employees
in a continuous way about the problems
the business is facing.
So suddenly, when things go bad,
everyone is not surprised, and being surprised
becomes very suspicious of what is going on.
No point in communicating this with the union leadership.
You want to communicate it with the employees.
And the last point I wish to make involves the relationship of these corporate leaders who, as I agree, are here to stay, heads of major organizations, with the most powerful community in our society, namely the intellectual and academic community.
The situation is improving, but very, very slowly, in part because even today your average CEO doesn't understand how important the intellectual and academic communities are, though I have begun to get through to them now by saying, look, what do you have vis-a-vis the academic community?
You have money.
You can ring up a senator, and he'll probably return your call.
You have influence of that kind.
But they have hostages.
They've got your children as hostages.
You know, when we have a situation today,
when I would wager half the children of the chief executive's offices of this country
despise business or have a low opinion of business as an activity,
you begin to wonder, how in God's name is business going to communicate?
How is it going to successfully defend the business system?
And the answer is that in a war between the business and academic communities,
the academic community will always win.
It may lose a temporary battle.
It'll always win the war in the long run because it has the children.
They own the children, yours and mine.
And so this gulf that exists between the academic intellectual community on the one hand
and the business community on the other is tragic.
Efforts must be made to bridge it on both sides.
I have no great illusions as to how easy it's going to be, but it's very difficult.
And you run into all sorts of difficulties.
You run into the difficulty that business executives are too busy to read, and being
too busy to read, their intellectual muscles atrophy.
Not their analytical muscles, they're still perfectly good, competent at analyzing a problem
very cogently, but their intellectual muscles, which are not the same thing as analytical
muscles, intellectual muscles being the muscle which permits you to play with an idea, to
entertain it, speculate about it, think about it, not necessarily come to a conclusion about
it right away, not in a decision-making context.
I don't really know what to do about this, except that I do think that larger corporations
are going to have to somehow internalize their knowledge, the attitudes, not necessarily
the attitudes, the knowledge and expertise of the academic and intellectual milieu.
They really need, they've got to somehow learn what's happening in that world, learn to appreciate in that world, have people fairly high up who read it, who read what's written in that world. I'll take a test right now. I assume the majority of you are business executives.
How many of you subscribe to the New Republic?
How many of you subscribe to Commentary?
You don't know what's happening in the world.
It's true, you really don't.
That's where the future is being shaped.
It's where your future is being shaped,
and not necessarily in those two magazines,
though I think I picked the two best,
the one slightly right of center,
one slightly left of center,
but in magazines of that kind.
Somehow or other, the corporation has to
have links with that other world of action,
the world of ideas where your future and mine, I guess, will be shaped.
Well, I could go on indefinitely, but it's time for the break.
And I can't go on indefinitely. I could go on for a while.
But it's time for the break.
In any case, we will have further occasion in the question period
to expand on any of these points.
I read some of these calls and to talk about movies and so on.
And let me go back to something Professor Kristol said, which one cannot emphasize enough
when he said that he's an old enough political scientist to know that one has to build on interest
and cannot build on sentiment.
And public relations people do not understand that, bluntly.
And interests have to be overt, visible, and institutionalized
to be effective. This is a lesson as old as Aristotle. If I sound old-fashioned, this is because the lesson is. And how do we institutionalize it? What, to my mind, is lacking in the campaigns today and why the impact is, I think, they are rhetorical successes, is that there is no follow-up.
And that has to be institutionalized in an interest. And how, I don't know whether that is through inside the business. And by the way, when Earth, Crystal and I say large company, we mean different things because he's looking at the Fortune 500 or Fortune 1000.
and I think that in terms of its behavior, its structure, the company he thinks is small business,
a couple of hundred employees and local, really is part of the small business world
and not of the large business world and not the cigar store owner or the carpenter's world.
How does one institutionalize the interest so that it's overt?
and that it is real and not just an appeal to rhetoric. I think that is a great problem.
Somebody here in the course asked what could Chrysler do? Well, now it's a little late, you know.
But what could Chrysler have done? That is a great question. And they didn't do anything.
and here is the steel industry and it's again very late and in many ways of
course the large steel plant is technologically on the verge of being
obsolete and we have a serious recession we could probably the world could get by
for 20 years with many plants using scrap because we have produced enough
steel since 1945 not to have to mine any iron ore if there is any drop in steel
demand if it doesn't keep on expanding. And so the worldwide future of the very
big steel mill is not particularly brilliant, I think. But what could steel
have done to institutionalize the fact that the jobs of the steel workers of this country
depend on steel remaining competitive, well, that's largely a matter of capital investment,
a matter of training, a matter of productivity, a matter of making a good deal of the labor cost burden
flexible related to steel production and profits rather than to fix the amounts and so on.
These are the kind of questions we haven't asked.
And then I think no matter how hard-hitting a campaign is and how much readership it gets
and so on, the impact is very small.
Wouldn't you agree?
Yes.
Well, double taxation of dividends, a very interesting case, in fact, has never quite
been written up. Now, it's an ambiguous conception. The question is, what kind of law do you want?
The truth is that the business community, by which I mean mainly the very large corporations,
never were in favor and are to this day not particularly in favor of ending the double
taxation of dividends, if that simply means that the people who receive the dividends don't
pay the corporate tax that has already been paid. I mean, really, in the end, it's a question of who
gets the money, who gets the cash. And the executives of large corporations want to amend
the double taxation of dividends in such a way so that the corporation keeps more of
the cash, while individuals have obviously another interest. Also, I think another reason
why that thing never took off was because it was quite obviously not going to get through
in that form, though you'll notice we just did get a $200 exclusion, $400 for married couple
exclusion of taxes on the first $400 of dividends. I see no reason why that can't go up to $2,000,
$3,000, which would appeal, you know, I don't know whether it really would represent capital
formation, but it certainly would look like capital formation would have a great deal of
appeal to the politicians. My own view is that if, I mean, I would certainly urge it,
I wouldn't urge it on this administration because I'd be wasting my breath, but if we get a new
administration, I would certainly try to build on that exclusion. I think that's the way to go.
The moment you have a $200, the new bill, part of the energy bill, oddly enough, a $200 exclusion
on interest of interest on our taxes on interest and dividends 400 for joint
filing I would start building that up get to a thousand two thousand three
thousand till it begins till it really begins to make a difference affecting
large numbers of people I'm for that on economic grounds I'm for that on
political grounds, but you're going to need a new administration to do that, and you're
going to need a new attitude toward taxation in general.
Well, there is a second possible approach, which is kind of beginning to come out of
the shadows, and some of my labor union friends in the staffers in Washington who actually
run the labor union movement, it isn't run by the council, are now looking at the need
to do something about capital formation and the fear they have that this would result
in what they see as anti-labor taxation legislation.
And they are toying with the idea that that part of a corporation's income, which represents
the ownership stake of the pension funds and so on.
The pension funds themselves do not pay dividend on their income.
They are tax exempt, as you know, largely.
That part that, let's say, pension funds or employees own 18% of U.S. Steel,
then 18% of the corporation income tax of U.S. Steel,
you still will not pay
operation income tax under 18%.
In other words, saying this is basically
for the benefit of employees
rather than for wicked capitalists anyhow.
And I don't know whether that's going to go far,
but it's an interesting idea
and it would come to grips
with at least part of that problem.
And I think you'll hear more about it
simply because there is going to be a very real problem of maintaining the pension funds in an inflationary time,
in a time of low profits, and this is one way of bolstering pension funds.
I'm not a great believer in those hidden or overt subsidies, but I've given up hope that we can get rid of them.
I think we can only riddle them with more exemptions.
Gentleman in back there.
The question is, what about the movement which does exist,
and I too have been approached,
to tax shelter dividends that are reinvested,
presumably in the same company.
Well, one can understand why corporations should approve that.
I don't really like it myself.
I don't see why the dividend should be reinvested in the same company
I mean, unless you could get them to agree that
if reinvested anywhere they are tax sheltered
but then you're really
you're going to make it complicated
you're talking about something to encourage savings and investment
I think there are simpler ways of getting at that same
simpler ways, yeah, easily
the simplest ways to abolish
the most asset and tax we have
which is a corporation income tax.
It is a tax largely on the consumer.
It's a cost.
But politically, I don't think you will see it abolished.
Now, that tax shelter idea is actually the Swedish system, as you know,
where companies can pay corporation income tax on a five-year basis,
and every five years they cast the books
and show what has been reinvested in productive facilities,
and that part of the profit is exempted from corporation income tax.
And let me say, we are pretty good at writing laws
to create full employment for lawyers and accountants,
but the Swedes are better.
And this is probably their most successful law.
Let me say, you've all handed a book of mine that is not yet officially out.
