I think for the most extraordinary.
I think this is probably the time to make a public issue of alt-needle stock,
but which one always does, you know, when a company has reached the peak earnings.
And, no, seriously, I think we can anticipate that in economics our concern will be productivity and supply,
and in politics are concerned with national survival
in a singularly dangerous and nasty international world.
And then those concerns may get a great deal of publicity,
but I don't think that they're going to get much more than that.
It is...
We better repeat the question.
Yeah.
Is this fact...
Why don't you take that?
Yes.
The question is why is our bureaucracy strictly adversary in its view of business and the rest of the world it isn't. Now this has long historical taproids, but believe me fundamentally, being a continental economy, the only one, we for 200 years managed our affairs on the assumption that there is no life on this planet outside the United States.
which other countries were never fortunate to indulge in.
And we very rapidly get to the point where we realize that we are not immune, not isolated.
Though, believe me, in this country nobody yet quite sees this.
When you listen to people discussing health care, you are given purely American explanations.
Nobody seems to know that countries in which the payments mechanism is exactly different from ours and exactly what is being advocated, let's say, by Senator Kennedy, have the same explosion of health care costs, though the American explanations can't be true.
Nobody seems to realize that the countries that had no Vietnam War and no racial problems
had earlier student unrest and more student unrest than we had started in France and in Japan.
So we are still thinking in terms of an isolated U.S., but it's changing very rapidly.
And you will very rapidly see perhaps an excessive reaction to the realization that we are very much in a world that is very dangerous. And that therefore the fundamental basic attitudes, which are already changing.
Ten years ago, our response to Chrysler would have been a very different one, for better or worse. So I think if you want to know what American politics will look like ten years hence, to a large extent we will have become far more like a European country and far less of an exception.
simply because our politics since Jefferson were based on the assumption that somehow the outside world is a non-event as far as American politics is concerned.
And that's no longer tenable.
The age of both internationalism and isolationism, both of which assume that we are alone in this world, that age is over.
we what are they none of the above no i think that uh in the first place it's a good idea to
look at your company and not at the company to answer these questions what are the most important
things for your company because i don't think the general answers will get you to action
And secondly, perhaps, yes, basic assumptions we have all been making about the economy, both domestic and international, about the society, about the political system, are open to serious re-examination.
We'll do some of it tomorrow in the economy.
But I think answers could be very glib,
and if you were to live by them, you'd come a cropper very fast.
I agree.
I think this is a situation in transition
when there's not quite to come out with that kind of conclusion.
That leaves it to the historian.
One does it after the event.
But it doesn't mean teaching.
I'm sorry?
It doesn't mean teaching. I think one learns most by teaching.
I don't think that you necessarily need to keep up with the outside world.
I think you need to keep up with your own inside world much more.
And my urgent advice to anybody is not to have a reading list,
and not to learn economics, and not even to teach,
teach but to have one real genuine major non-job related interest and that may be playing the
cello in a spring quarter that is important not golf surely if you are good enough why not
something in which you are more than just a dilettante in which you take it seriously
enough to work. Because the important thing, believe me, the human race starts with you
and not with your subordinates. And it starts with you and not with Mr. Carter. And so the
most important thing is to make sure that you don't atrophy and grow. But that means
you and not I, and not he and not she. What is it that you need so that you stay alive
and keep on growing and that you that's the aging process remains confined to the legs
and stops short at the neck
