Thank you, Tom Gladwin, but I hope you don't mind if I immediately correct the chairman,
you know one doesn't do it. The most important thing about me he didn't tell me. I am and
hope to continue for many years a member of the faculty of GBA and very proud about it
and very happy and therefore very, very grateful to be allowed to come back here. And by the
way we have already decided that I should come back next year, but we haven't decided
topics yet. But we have picked a topic for the 1984 Symposium. It is, is there a cure
against persistent deflation? So there are still some optimists around.
Our first topic here today, maybe the way to start it, is to tell you an anecdote.
Last week I had three days at home. By the way, will you please, if you have any trouble
hearing me, shout louder and not wait till the break? I can't judge it from here. Can
you all hear? How about you in the back row, that lady with the earrings? Yeah, good. Thanks.
Thanks. About last week I had three days with old friends, the top management of one of the world's largest banks, which is in the process of succession.
And that particular bank has a long tradition of a one top man, very strong chief executive. And we sat down and my old friend, the chief executive, said, we do not know how we are going to structure top management after I retire.
But we do know one thing. There is going to be no successor to me. We can no longer have a chief executive. And we have to think through how we build a team with a presiding officer.
And even, we are not even sure whether that's a permanent function or whether we follow the Swiss who elect a chairman from the eight department heads each year, maybe for a three-year term. We don't know. We do not understand it.
And we wrestled with it three days, and we are going to, since we have five years, we
are going to wrestle with it a few more times.
But it is a very important story, because this is a man who is convinced and committed
to the idea of the chief executive officer, and yet, and a very successful tenure.
When he leaves the bank in a few years, he will leave behind a very different bank from
the one that took over, and a very much more important and bigger one.
And yet somehow the complexity does not fit the traditional lines.
And one reason for this is not that the structures have become so much more complex,
but that we have neglected the second approach to, what, to call it to governance, which is traditional.
the last 30 years you know if you look at the history of political theory and basically
when we talk organization structure we are talking governance and political theory there
are two strands in western the western tradition one is the constitutionalist one which basically
says what are the right laws so that even mediocre people can function and so that the evildoers are
at least confined and the other one which went by the name of the education of the christian prince
so it also goes back to the greeks and before says how do we form the rulers so that even if
If there are turbulent times and the rules aren't clear, we get the best there is and
we get virtue into the system and leadership.
And in the last 30 years we have emphasized the constitutional approach.
Let me say this is normally in this country where business basically started out taking
its structural concepts from the American Constitution.
If you look at our organization theory, it is tremendously influenced by the Constitution,
for better or worse, largely for better, because at least it preaches the need to think through
the limitations of power, but not entirely.
And we have had some approaches that are opposite, that start out with how do we form people.
Some of you may be old enough to remember that I once was considered a pioneer of human
relations, which was an attempt to offset somewhat the constitutionalist approach, with
an approach on the formation of people and of their relationships and their organization
development.
But let's face it, those two things haven't worked.
They have been minor corrections, they never became mainstream.
And now we will have to look at the formation of people very seriously, simply because for
some of the problems we have to solve, there is no other way.
Let me give you an example.
Increasingly we will have multinational companies in which the 19th century, if you look at our multinationals today, most of them 19th century in their structure, with a parent company in their home country and with subsidiaries which even if they manufacture, manufacture the same products for their own home market.
And increasingly you get what to a good pedantic orthodox organization man like myself are strictly incestuous relationships in which the design may come out of Detroit or the specs come out of Detroit.
the design comes out of Germany, the body comes out of Brazil, and the transmission
out of Mexico, the Fiesta, the Ford Fiesta, or if you look at the IBM office products,
or if you look at the shoes you are wearing, which are the result of production sharing
in which fundamentally resources are organized not in terms of products but in terms of stages
of production with labor intensive work done where the labor is uh was designed and where
their market is or the technology with a lot of the technology done where the technologists are
and let me see technologists are proving remarkably resistant to migration it is for reasons
which may be good or bad, those French specialists in veterinary medicine, which is the strongest
French pharmaceutical tradition, prefer to work in a research lab on the Loire to working
in Hoboken. I can't figure it out, but they do. And you can't get them to move, or even
to New London, Connecticut. And so you have to do the research where the researchers are.
It's no longer true, as it was in the 50s, that researchers were so badly paid in Germany
or Austria or Japan that they only too gladly took that job in Peoria.
They don't anymore.
And though you will have to think through how you organize and integrate, not components
but stages.
And the product is sold where the customers are, which are likely to be developed countries.
And then that subsidiary you have in France is not the traditional one.
But even more difficult is the subsidiary in Colombia, where if you're a pharmaceutical
company, Colombia is a developed market.
Let me say the only industry for which developing countries are fully developed markets, also
for the simple reason that pharmacy is the only part of modern health care a very poor country can really afford.
It's the cheapest part and it has 60% of the job.
And so Colombia spends proportionately more per capita on prescription drugs than most developed countries.
And yet it's a small market because it's a small population and only the urban population.
Roughly similar to one good sales district in a developed country, let's say Manchester or Kansas City.
And yet that head of your subsidiary there has to be a distinguished man because you matter greatly.
So he probably is the most distinguished medical administrator, former dean of the medical school and minister of health.
And he has to be an equal because you negotiate with the government.
They're not with the elderly Catholic nun who buys drugs for Mercy Hospital.
How does he relate to the top?
And you need his input.
He's a very distinguished man.
Very few of that caliber you could get into your own organization.
How do you structure him?
And so you have all kinds of new complexities
which make the simple traditional structures very hard.
And then one has to say, first we need new structural principles.
Now the answer to it is, we ain't got none.
We have patchwork.
We had in the history of organization two very simple principles.
One is only failed around 1911, the functional organization of a manufacturing company.
And the other one came shortly thereafter, Pierre Dupont, Alfred Sloan,
and I codified it, the federal decentralization, and they work where they work, like a charm.
But they have strict requirements and severe limitations.
And when you go beyond it, almost every organization today goes beyond it, whether you talk of.
You know, when I first knew the Bell Telephone System, it was beautifully organized and very simple.
good operating companies and 98 of their business was within their territory because in those days
98 of all calls and 98 of all revenues were local calls nobody had heard of computer transmission or
what have you all right you transmitted radio programs by cable not your tv programs and today
if you look at it you uncle sam you know that you know drucker's law don't you that when uncle sam
brings an antler trust you the problem is is over uncle sam brought the trust suit against ibm punch
card monopoly in 1949 and it brought it from the suit against uh att's telecommunication monopoly
in 1968 always when it's over until sam tries to rewrite history uh so uh it's infallible never
failed and so when you look at it today and you all know the best telephone system is desperately
trying to reorganize itself into regulated and non-regulated and quasar regulated businesses
but uh when you have when actually you have no longer a local system that's interconnected
with a long distance system with local what peripherals is the right word the old organization
cannot work and doesn't and how do you organize and we don't know the answers we know patchwork
and we will all have to live with things which quite clearly are full of friction and present
problems simulated decentralization such as the process industries uh um pioneered when bill may
ran canco i think he pioneered here as a process one you know the one thing you can get out of a
glass kill in his class no matter what you try and yet it goes into god knows how many markets
cans and so you have to simulate decentralization which I think if Bill
were to write a definitive work on transfer pricing would be a wonderful
work except that nobody would believe it because it's much too complicated and
there is no right way of doing it and yet you have to do it or you can't give
people any responsibility and or take the increasing need to operate with two
technologies at the same time you know a good many high technology companies are
have one foot in electricity and one in electronics and it doesn't work the
demands especially the lead times are so different and how do you organize and so
we have it do a great deal of patchwork and we understand it let me see in
retrospect we understand why the Japanese are organized the way they are
because modern Japan industry had a problem of being in two cultures at the
same time the old one pre-meiji pre-1867 which is still the old suppliers and so
on and then you imported from the west of modern corporate structure and then
Then you build groups, then you build a center with satellites in which you have usually
none or very little ownership relationship, but a great deal of joint strategy and mutual
loyalty.
And one of the gentlemen this morning said, yesterday you talked about Toyota being so
illiquid how come they have no debt on their balance sheet indeed they don't have a penny
of debt on their balance sheet but they have guaranteed seven times their capital as loans
bank loans to their suppliers which don't show on their balance sheet but which if you read carefully
the annual report you'll find it there it's not it's not even mentioned in an accountant's footnote
but you can piece it together and that's the way it works and you have a group and
those suppliers have had their own management succession for five generations
and yet they are in part of toyota and toyota is in back of them now i don't think we go into
building what is clearly a clan structure but we are probably despite antitrust
going into doing something that the Germans called a group like Siemens, simply because
it works better. If you look at that head of the second largest company in medical electronics
is Siemens, the largest is GE. And whereas at GE you have an x-ray department, at Siemens
Since you have a company in medical electronics, 40% of the shares are which are publicly traded,
which means the same bank holds them, that holds Siemens.
And the president of that electronics company is a president with a board of management
and a supervisory board, which is only half Siemens, and he has a very different status
from the GE department manager or group vice president.
And it's not only that he has a different status
in the industry.
He negotiated the purchase of the CAT scanner
from the English till he was ready to sign.
And then he went to his board.
He did not.
He discussed it with them as a matter of strategy.
But that was then his business.
And yet, how does he keep in step?
And so we have new problems.
And let me say, we will have to rediscover
the education of the Christian prince
by the way the great masterpiece of that tradition
is Machiavelli's Prince, both the climax
and the reduction to absurdity.
But Madison, in his comments on the Constitution,
the Federalist comments, is in that tradition, too.
It's not defined.
And Henry Adams' education of Henry Adams' identity.
It's an old and honorable tradition, and we have forgotten it.
We have neglected it.
When I first started, it was still very strong in the 30s.
And then because we had such a big job of architecture to do,
of organizational work, we forgot it.
So let me point out some of the things we know.
Yesterday, Bob Hawkins, in one of his comments, alluded to the Japanese habit of rotating
people on their way up, regardless of their background, where we after, he said, a short
period, tend to pop them into a function and keep them.
Neither statement is literally true.
The Japanese don't do what he said they do.
In fact, they have growing resistance to it from their own technical people.
Young Japanese engineers, they do not accept with a great screaming a stint in personnel
or a stint in accounting.
They say, damn it, I want to do engineering work.
And between you and me, Japanese data processors are no more willing to become members of the
human race than American data processors.
But there is something to it.
One of the funny things about Japan is that you have to have a university degree
from a good university to be at the top of your class.
But Japanese employers, whether management or government,
assume that one learns absolutely nothing in the university.
It's a more realistic assumption than ours, more nearly realistic.
So that's a start all over again. And that part of that exposure. But there is something you have, and also of course since nobody usually leaves the employer of a company and nobody joins, the group has grown up together.
it worked together and got drunk together and so on but it has been
exposed and it substitutes for what you and I would consider very sloppy
organization in many cases by that personal network by having grown up
together by knowing the facets of the business are they have severe
limitations let me see promoting only from within is just as bad as promoting
only from without well it's better but one needs to bring in people from the outside into middle
management positions or an organization becomes ingrown very rapidly uh but uh there is this
looking at it and for the multinational uh when you know when national cash which is one of our
oldest multinationals brought in the first non-american as chief executive officer mr
Anderson, who is now chairman, he shocked those people at NCR by looking at getting
a roster of all the younger people in NCR organizations from all over the world, 59
countries, management and technical people, people in their late 20s, and said, I want
one quarter of them within the next five years to work in another country.
Their next promotion has to be outside their country.
And there are many of them in the United States and in Dayton.
So that they aren't like me.
When I got to the top in Tokyo, I did not know my way around Dayton.
I didn't know anybody in Dayton.
I hadn't worked with anybody.
When I needed something from head office, I had to go through channels.
And you all know what that means.
It may get up there, but does it ever come back?
And this, let me see, at the same time, in the multinational,
you will not be able to remove all the people.
Most of you know the name of Jacques-Maison Rousseau,
very large of IBM International, the World Trade Corporation,
and who refused at the end, after 10 years in this country,
the job of vice chairman of whatever the top multinational job is,
and is in Paris as chairman of the World Trade Corporation
and head of Europe and Asia,
and who said that my children are now reaching the point
at which they have to decide whether they want to be Frenchmen or Americans,
and they want to be Frenchmen, and then I can't live in the United States.
And he was, what, 45, which is the age at which your children...
Now, if you're a Frenchman, university counts.
You can go to a French school in New York, but you have to go to a French university.
If you're Japanese, that's first grade.
If you are an Englishman, accept it.
That's prep school.
And so accept it that you will have to look at your management people
with limits at their mobility, transnational mobility,
that are rooted in very genuine values.
And don't make the typical mistake of managers
to believe that there is only one value system
and it's that of the corporation.
That is a hollow man who has only one value.
And whatever the system is, if it's only one system, he's a hollow person.
So what is the value system?
And to have your children grow up with roots in a culture, that is a legitimate thing.
Particularly for a Japanese who feels that outside of Japan, they will never be accepted.
There will always be foreigners or nieces and sons taking the sex of their generation
rather than 100% Americans, or let alone 100% Germans.
Can you see that?
And so the young ones, before the children reach that age,
you need to build a multinational core.
Let me say, I discussed it the other day with one of my friends
amongst the big eight accounting firms.
And that's becoming a very real problem
because as the firm has grown very big
their name on the door is the same
but how do you maintain the cohesion
well the only way to do it
is to take a young CPA at age 26
who shows anything between his ears
except a balance sheet
and move him from the office in Worcester, Mass
to Lima, Peru for a few years
went back. At that age, people like to move. It's an adventure. Even if they are married,
they are still mobile. And so we will have to work very hard at building a corporate
culture, if you want to call it that. But to do it early. And let me say, you will have
to realize that organization is not mechanical. We try to build our organizations as close
to mechanical models as possible for the simple reason that it's simple and this is fine when you
assume as we did and the most extreme example of this is the first one who really the two ones who
came to grips with organization and work frederick taylor and only for you both assumed that you know
what you are doing you know a coal mine mines coal it's obvious doesn't it uh when when taylor when
he looked at what the sand shoveler was doing assumes that we know what we are doing when you
are in a period in which the real challenge is to decide what you're doing and to find out whether
that's technological change or market change then you can't assume that the work is given
and then the one axis of organization in which you see you need a skeleton and all of you know
a land animal that's more than six inches tall needs a skeleton can't be held together by
hardened skin anymore and the organization chart with its lines of authority and its reporting
is a skeleton. Now we always had some problems with that, as you all know that if you have
a divisional structure, the relationship between your corporate controller and divisional controller
is not a simple one and can't be decided one way or another. You all know that when you
get to technology, it doesn't work if you have coordinating groups and it doesn't work
any other way you all know but by and large we try to organize around the
skeleton what was information coming in as a form of energy information is
energy and let me say by the way it is a shift fuel as energy to information is
energy that is a major element in the present transition to the low entropy
information is very low entropy energy and incidentally unlike other energy
infinitely storable totally different in its but its energy when you get have
that and you have for the first time energy transformed transferred from the
crude process of making things to all work including set of the manager and
the moment you have a console on your disk and you can plug into your data
bank the old organization structure collapses because you then need you have
and you know if you look at our body we have not one system but it doesn't
interrelated but autonomous the skeleton and the musculature is one but we have
several nervous system in the circulatory and an ingestive digestive
and an inhaling respiratory and the procreative and so on they are all
interrelated but they are autonomous and you can look at the body as organized
there are any one of them and you have to which is when you look today at what
how anatomy is taught in the medical school yes you still begin this
dissection which focuses on skeleton musculature but you end it thought when
my brother went to medical school 50 years ago you end it there no longer
That's a beginning. And then you look then at other ways that give you a systems view of the body.
Chemical, electrochemical phenomena and so on.
Well, we are beginning to look at organizations that way.
At the moment, everybody has a console on his disk.
We will have to organize around information which, for instance,
for instance, presupposes that we will have to ask that each manager and professional
think through what information he needs.
You know, my friends at IBM talk very learnedly about data banks.
But that presumes that you know what you want in there.
And most of you look at it the wrong way.
You look at, you see the encyclopedia or the telephone book in your mind's eye.
That telephone book is a very ingenious invention, by the way.
the first modern information system, just a hundred years old, but a very simple one,
and one in which you want only one piece of, one bit, and it is related to already established
criteria, name and address. Now that's not modern information, and so you won't get an
data bank unless you think through what information do I need to do my job, so that one
can then the information specialist can at least begin to go to work and think through the logics
uh also you need a different kind of responsibility which gives you a different
relationship because the moment you do this you will find that your present boss basically is
irrelevant to your information needs he's a restraint on them he's neither a source of
information nor really somebody whom you need to inform because for most of the work he reviews
but he's not a partner and your subordinates some of them are very much part of your system
and others are peripheral and so when you look at information as an organizing principle which
it has to be you arrive at just as when electricity came in we had to reward the
fractional horsepower more motor we have totally reorganized production and now
with the mine mini processor we are doing it again we are going back to
batch plus production obviously and just as one org has to reorganize production
with a new energy one has to organize structure with a new energy and we will
organize it and we don't know yet except that we can say you, you purchasing agent, will have to
think through what information you need. We can't tell you. Whereas traditional organization
structure goes the other way. Here I, the organization specialist, tell you and I can
write your job description well you can then tell me here is something but that
causes problems for me but fundamentally I can do it for you which one can always
do in a skeleton because there's a principle is linear and rigid in
formation it's neither in the very heavily based on feedback rather than on
a linear so how what is the structure for it and let me see and how do we
organize the new within the old, in fact can be organized. If you look at the last
30 years in which the obstacles to entrepreneurship were exceedingly high
in terms of the tax laws, in terms of our credit structure, and in the preferences
of the young. Now we are not as bad as the Japanese where they better you do
in school, the bigger your employer has to be. We don't believe that bigger is better
and very big is best. But we get pretty close to it. It isn't true. We are being told that
in all the graduate business schools, the bright young ones now want to go into small
business. That's what they say. When you look at where they are three years later, they're
with Citibank. For good reasons. Citibank can afford people who don't earn their keep yet.
It takes five years before you earn your keep, except it.
Citibank can afford their overhead, and a little entrepreneur with two million sales maximum
can't. But also, he has no time to train anybody. He has to throw them in.
and also they learn the wrong things.
One has to learn system.
Before you can say, but we violate system,
you have to be able to do it.
You can write free verse after you have learned to write the sonnet.
One started composition with the most advanced of modern music.
I almost became a musician.
Modern composer, Anton von Webern.
And I thought he would let me write the kind of stuff he wrote.
And he said, my dear Peter, you are taking liberty with the variation form.
Haydn did this after 30 years.
First, you'll never be a Haydn, and you have been in it 30 days.
And I had to learn to write the orthodox variation,
where you modulate on variation three from the major into minor,
but not before Variation 3 and not later.
And then after I'd done that for a year badly,
he said, now, baby, you can take one liberty,
but be careful.
And I brought it in.
He said, that was wrong.
You aren't ready yet.
And it was fine.
So accepted.
And that's why they go to the GEs and the IBMs,
because they have a training program.
Yeah, right.
Not only because they also pay better.
It isn't quite as severe as it is in Europe or in Japan, but it's there.
And that's one of, so for that reason, it's enormous.
So we have been amazingly effective in having small entrepreneurs,
and yet when you look at the things that need to be done,
an enormous amount must come out of existing large organizations
simply because the capital needs, the people needs and the planning needs are so great.
So how do you organize the entrepreneurial within the managerial?
And again the answer is largely not structure but people and compensation systems
and managing individuals and placing them and not structure.
And how do you do what is increasingly becoming the crucial task in an inflationary period, long term and short term? Accepted in an inflation, financial men must be on top. Not because that's where they belong, but because there is no choice.
If your treasurer can lose more money in a week, either in foreign exchange or in interest rates,
then you can make the honest work in a year.
Then you have to have the treasurer on top.
Inflation always puts financial people on top, and they always do the wrong things.
Simply because, don't blame them, because the structure forces them to.
They always push the short-term only, and it takes very strong management to inflation-proof a company,
which one does not only by knowing what inflation does, but by seeing what are the few things that are not short-term,
and that one has to run disregarding inflation, not ignorance of inflation, but disregarding it.
In other words, on the assumption of a 3% rather than 18% interest rate,
because I've said 18% interest rate, 15% is inflation, roughly, or 40%.
What are the few things, and how do we build the information system
so that it doesn't mislead us?
I now, in my own friends and clients, show these things below the line
and have a separate budget so that I'm not totally misled.
But also, how do I build it structurally,
that the two can go together?
And I want operating people,
and they have to be very short-term in an inflationary period.
I have no choice.
And yet I want the operating people not totally to think short-term.
But I want a few people to work on the long-term,
We're not on pie in the sky.
So how do I build the structure?
Let me say the only answer I have found is, again, the placement of people,
the rotation of people, to make sure that they're exposed to different challenges,
the formation of people.
Yesterday, after our meeting here, I had a drink with a very lively young woman,
friend of one of my daughters, who is an editor of a business magazine, very bright young woman.
And when we talked about the thing, she brought up some of the questions that bother her about
her friends, male and female, who are in business. And she looked at me and said,
you know what you're really saying? You said you want the Chase Bank to become what the Germans
called a Bildungsroman, a novel of human formation.
Now, that was a rather put, but by no means stupid.
In a way, that is the way.
How do people, not the human relations people,
made one dreadful mistake, which we now realize.
They talked of human nature.
That was the reason why we in the human relations movement
were totally ineffectual.
We talked of a collective called the human being in society.
We did not talk, we preached individuals, but we did not really look at them.
We didn't manage them.
We managed workers, supervisors.
One has to, but it explains why we were ineffectual
and why the very human beings whom we thought we befriended rejected us.
And the organization development people believe that structure is an obstacle, an impediment and has to be, if not eliminated, at least bent to the human being. They are equally ineffectual.
The skeleton has to be rigid, let me say, very few things as undesirable as a floppy skeleton,
because it very rapidly becomes arthritic, can't stand it.
The skeleton has to be rigid, one cannot adapt the skeleton to people,
but one has to fit as individuals so that they can learn what the individual can learn,
that they have the exposures that they then transmute into a personality. And we will
increasingly have to depend not on good will, but on systematic and systematic work on
the education of the leadership, the rulership, the professional in organizations, their
relationships, and they are taking responsibility for it. We will have to challenge people to
say it's your job to think through who has to know and understand what you are trying
to do, and to make yourself understood. Don't wait for the information specialist, that's
futile. It's your job to say who needs to know what I'm going to concentrate on, but
also who depends on me for what and then to go to that person and say this is
what I think you look to me for which is the only way to get relationships you
know as an old consultant every client of mine tells me of the terrible
personality problems we have nonsense they're almost personality problems are
very rare in organizations organizations have to be very tolerant misunderstandings
are common. Personality problems are almost unheard of. But what is common is that you
don't know what the next fellow is doing because he hasn't told you and you haven't asked him.
And so you assume he must do what to you is obvious, and when there's something else you
think he's either stupid or malicious. No, he only marches by his own drama and hasn't
told you what it is and you don't hear it. So we will have to demand a great deal of
responsibility from individuals for making themselves effective in a system that we cannot
organize so that it makes them effective. We started out this beginning of work on modern
organization with the old belief of the constitutionalists. I'm an old constitutionalist.
My degrees in constitutional law, it goes back that far. The question has always been what does
the structure has to be, so that it makes it possible for people to work. The structure
supports the scaffolding. And that will continue as it has throughout the long history of governance.
There will be a key question. But now we will increasingly also have to ask the question,
and what does the individual have to learn? What responsibility does he have to take?
What placement does he have to have so that he can support the structure?
And that is the only way we know to manage complexity.
And all I'm really saying is that we are moving from the mechanical model in all areas.
We are moving from it in philosophy, we are moving from it in technology, we are moving
from it in science.
Well, let me see. It is quite clear that, not that the breakthroughs aren't in physics,
but that the approach to an understanding of science is no longer in physics.
That the young biologists are the ones who can synthesize modern science,
no longer the physicists. For the first time in 300 years, that's a very great shift in world view.
And we are moving it in our organizations to biological models, basically, organic models.
And the one characteristic of organic models is that they have several axes and not one.
And the one characteristic is that they depend on configurations.
We don't know what makes a cell differentiate itself and become the lining of the esophagus.
But it is not something outside the cell. It's not an external stimulus.
So what makes a purchasing agent tomorrow effective?
It will not possibly be something outside the purchasing agent, which it is today, which it is in the table of organization.
What does he have to learn? What responsibilities does he have to take?
First, to make himself a purchasing agent. And secondly, to be effective on one.
And that is the great challenge I think ahead, and all I can tell you is that this is, I told you yesterday, our tenth meeting of this particular symposium.
I don't think I'll run the 30th one, but whoever runs it, those of you young enough in this room, will you ask him the question, how do we do it now?
Because by that time we'll know. The next 20 years we'll do it.
thank you very much
and I hope I didn't cut too much into Bill and his life
will you please
be terribly nuts and bolts
focused in your questions
because we have
well done the stratosphere much too long
