we have a very broad range of fascinating questions here many that are related to management
side one question well i think all of you by now know that increasingly you can't move an
individual you have to move his wife and increasingly the decision whether to accept
the promotion and the move will be made jointly and let me see where you see that most strongly
and you can learn from our mistakes is in the universities frankly i have grave doubts
that the traditional american uh college or university in the countryside can survive
i would consider the survival of lady cornell almost i'll say very unlikely
you just now you have a faculty surplus but in 10 years from now you won't and then the
The fact that when you hire that young assistant professor of history and he is married to
a wife who is an accountant or a lawyer or a nurse, there are no jobs in Issaka.
We are in the metropolitan area of Los Angeles and we can usually find a job for a wife and
it works.
If the University of California Riverside, which is 50 miles out, is dying, they cannot replace faculty.
And you will accept it that you will not assume that it's a promotion for that district sales manager in Atlanta.
There will be division sales manager in Minneapolis, unless you have somebody in Minneapolis working on finding a job, today, incidentally, a house, too, but a job for his wife.
And accept it.
Put in a simple, you know, in the last 40 years, maybe it isn't written company policy, but most of you do it.
That here is a couple that have a mongoloid child in Greenwich, Connecticut, and they finally found a place where that child is happy and looked after. And then when the man says, no, I'm not going to take the job in New Orleans, finally we have found a place.
and my wife, mothers of mongoloid children, have very serious guilt problems.
My wife is, for the first time, a little reconciled.
We are no longer penalizing them, though it took us a long time to learn it.
Will you accept the fact that it better be written company policy
that if an employee, male or female, says no to a promotion or a transfer
because he is not going to destroy his family,
that you are not going to penalize him for it.
It's not the black mark.
It is a, within, otherwise you're going to have it
within 10 years predictably as a major legislative problem
and you'll have Uncle Sam screaming discrimination
and then you will scream and complain
and you have no one to blame but yourself.
Actually, I think...
Is there such a thing?
Pardon?
Is there such a thing? Where?
I knew there was...
I saw one one time.
In my books only.
I wish I...
Everyone...
I'm going to...
If I may come in, I would say there is a probability.
I don't know how much.
Make it 64 and one-eighth percent, you know.
The less certain you are, the more precise you have to be.
And the first law of econometrics.
But it's not about two theaters, I would say, two out of three.
That's why the personnel function will become far more important
and the personnel discipline will disappear.
I think we developed really as a result largely of the union drive of the theaters in World War II
a personnel profession, which is staff-focused and which basically spends its time with a
great many chores and very little thinking about people, it thinks about activities.
And it's unlikely that this is going to survive.
The personnel function will become far more important, it will become a line function
rather than a staff function, as it is in Japan, by the way.
In Japan, you know, if you run a plant or if you run the manufacturing manager,
you learn who your plant manager is from the company newspaper.
Personnel appoints him, doesn't even consult you.
That may be going a little bit too far, but it's not different from the way the military operates.
and that this is the only way you can make sure
that you place the person who is most qualified
and needs the exposure the most
and you don't start out with whom does the boss want
but what does the job require.
I'm not sure we'll go that far.
Those are strong arguments against our present staff man
who has not enough authority and yet too much responsibility.
But we will see more and more personnel as a line function, concerned with the placement
of people, the development of people, the career paths of people, and so on.
And fewer and fewer personnel specialists as a career, because you can only do this
if you know operations by having been in them and know them expecting to go back into them.
And so I think if I were to set up things today, I would aim at having, oh yes, one
does need a few specialists, but fundamentally I would look at here is Joe or Jane and at
what stage in his or her career does she belong for five years in a people-focused job concerned
with placing people or with training people or with thinking through tomorrow's needs
for people, and what should our jobs have to be to be marketable? It's going to be a
very difficult question, as the supply changes. And then after three or five years, we had
as Jane, who now understands a lot about people and organization, go back into operations.
And I think you will see, in this country, in 1906, when the first big management job
was done, which was the reorganization of an American army that had totally collapsed
in the Spanish-American war.
Elio Root wanted to copy the German General Staff, which is a separate career ladder,
and Congress slapped him down rightly.
And so General Staff is seen as a development, as a major challenge to somebody who is on
the way up, and that's a great strength.
And I think you will see personnel in this country moving in that same direction.
In some ways, it is one of the two general staffs of a business.
The other one is planning.
And neither of them should be a permanent career that gives you either wire pullers
or specialists, and you don't really want either.
If you look at strategic management and planning, and it's not terms I'm necessarily enamored
Let's see, are you talking about how to do better what we are already doing,
or are you talking about the different?
Our planning historically has been focused on doing what we already do.
That may no longer work in a time of real discontinuity.
If you want to look at doing the new things, they can't be in the existing containers.
One can only codify yesterday.
No matter how much your job description says that that general manager of the transformer department is also responsible for the future.
You know, the one predictable thing in operations is a daily crisis.
And also, it's got $850 million in today's business and all future businesses.
One of the best forecasts is that within eight years, you're going to sell $4 million.
bucks. The curve is always an exponential one, you hope. And he is not going to take
time out when the daily crisis hits, nor will his boss allow him to. Here, transformer sales
are going down, and we have quality problems, and the big boss comes up and just says, leave
me alone. I'm working on what will replace a transformer. I don't think you're going
to last long. Nor should you. And then the locus of tomorrow, which always also begins
with abandoning yesterday, and don't ask operating people to sit there in contemplation
of suicide. No, if you look at strategic planning as what is different than you, where you begin
with what are the things we go out of and then say what are the really different things and then it's
simply not something you can do in the existing operating containers and it's got to be a central
function for the simple reason that it's got to have time it's got to be reasonably free from the
daily crisis and it's got to be willing and able to think the unthinkable namely that it wasn't
a good law to invent it's a glass bottle and therefore it won't last forever and that you
can't put and but don't for christ's sake do that with a big huge staff thinking is best done by one
person with a pencil or with it and and a piece of yellow and a yellow pad or with a blackboard
and a piece of chalk it is not really well done in the management conference
let me say there are judging by yesterday's name cards there are five headhunters in this room
will you find one of them fast that does it for that
um strategic business unit which as you know ge invented about or make it 15 years ago
So, as the answer to the organization problems which the reorganization to which I was the
chief consultant created, which was that on the one hand here were businesses that were
big enough, in some cases very big, and yet if you had all of them report to the top you
would have had 600 or 400 businesses and if you went by the span of control you had too
many levels.
And so the strategic business unit was basically an attempt to create a locus for the fundamental
thinking and planning and strategic management, including people by the way, that would reduce
the number of units again to a manageable number
without giving you six levels of command
between the chief executive
and where the actual action is being done.
And it worked.
It is not an easy structure.
It requires a great deal of self-discipline.
And it took probably, I guess,
by that time I had stopped working with GE
so I can speak rather freely,
but it took about six, eight years,
five years before people had learned to take the appropriate amount of responsibility and to be self-disciplined.
Where you don't have that problem, the role of structures varies.
The simpler, the better.
What is the maximum of complexity you need to have, not what is the minimum.
And so where you have a newspaper chain, 180 papers, you know, one newspaper doesn't work with the other.
The Rochester Times or whatever it is, doesn't work with the paper of the same chain in Pueblo, Colorado.
So each are truly autonomous.
You don't build anything else in between.
And where you have Sears Roebuck stores, they don't work with one another.
and each has its own territory.
You are very simple and flat.
You can be.
But where you have technologies,
where you have competing technologies
within the same corporate body,
parallel, and you don't yet know which one is going to win.
And you have to be in, let's say, the large mainframe computer,
but you can't any longer stay out of the mini and the microprocessor.
and you don't really know how the two will work together
because it is quite conceivable that tomorrow
you will build your own large-scale computer
by small units and building blocks,
but it is equally conceivable that you build your system
around even larger units.
We don't know.
Then you need a place where these things can be balanced and looked at
that is sufficiently close to the scene of action
and yet big enough so that it can work with the top management
and the top management staffs without creating a traffic jam.
Mike, let me say, I judge organizations not by how they look on the chart,
but by three criteria.
Do more than a very few people on the top have to spend more than one quarter of their time in meetings.
If so, you're over-organized.
And I mean that literally.
Secondly, when I call up the people secretary in the executive vice president's office,
does she know where everybody is or does she say, well, they're out in the field someplace.
And I'm quite serious.
And the other one is when I go up and I have a meeting with the president,
how many other people sit in the ante room?
If it's more than three, then too many report to him.
And believe me, these are much better criteria.
And when you move there, you have six sittings there.
Then I'm saying, now, why don't you have strategic planning units?
Then you have too many people reporting to you, and you have not really thought through,
and you have too many levels, and you have not really thought through how you create a center
that enables you to abolish two or three levels
and yet give you the close working relationship
with a place where a decision can be made.
Would you agree?
That's not the only thing.
I only ask secretaries a question because she's the only one.
If she doesn't know the answer, then I know nobody does.
That's right.
I don't have to go any further.
If she does, at least one person does.
Okay, in U.S. companies.
Well, look, co-determination is the last desperate attempt of a dying union movement
to cement itself in the power structure.
The labor union is an institution whose time is past,
but it's also a needed one, as Poland has demonstrated.
But fundamentally, when 90% of the gross national product goes out into the wage fund,
then labor unions have no function anymore.
then more becomes a meaningless slogan.
And so when 50% of the young entrants into the labor force
have sat in school beyond the lifespan of the natural man,
then the traditional labor union has ceased to ever function.
White-collar unions, yes, they exist, but they are very different animals
from what Walter Russo had in mind.
And so the labor union in every place is aging.
the most certain symptom of an institution in crisis is the inability to attract good people into management.
That is the absolutely infallible symptom.
And when you look at labor union leadership in the developed world, look at ours.
And now, I knew Walter Russo very well. I was quite close to the redhead.
And believe me, what Charlie Wilson, engine Charlie of GM, said about him,
that if Walter had been born three years earlier, he would be president of GM and not I,
because Walter would have gone to college.
Walter would then have been promoted into supervision before 1925.
That was the way into supervision of 1929 and into management.
And then, but he was just at that point, he worked for Ford in the River Rouge plant
when Ford was hit by the demise of the Model T.
And that's why he was thrown off the track.
And five years later, you began to come in through college.
And so in those days, union leadership was the way for the ablest, the most ambitious.
Today, you know, not Walter Roos' grandson, I don't know whether he has any,
but the grandson of the generation comes to the School of Commerce at Washington Square
or to the graduate business school here, four years later comes out with a degree in cost
accounting and never has to do a day's honest work again in his life.
That's what one goes to school for after all, that's the main purpose.
And he doesn't go into union leadership.
The Jerry Wolfs are very rare exceptions.
What you now see are people who are losers who go into union leadership, but not just
in this country.
is worse. Germany is worse. Japan is different because they are a stint as president of the
local union is an important assignment on the way up the management ladder. Union presidents
in Japan are not appointed by management but nominated by it and come out of management
and go back into management. But that's unique. So co-determination is the last desperate
attempt, and also to establish the center of gravity in the blue-collar worker.
If you look at the laws, they've all been fighting participation by white-collar workers
and managements, and have lost on that issue, both in Germany and in England.
So this is, and the moment you have a union leader in management, he can either do nothing
or do harm, because he can no longer represent.
So I'm not saying it isn't going to come.
One gets hit sometimes by the last big wave of the, you know, and it can be a nasty wave.
But the real problem is a very different one.
With ownership of American industry in the hands of employees, because the pension funds
are the only capitalists around, how will we build the new ownership into the decision-making
structure?
Now, if you don't do that, then the unions will say,
we represent them and we move in on you.
But the oldest law of politics is that power follows property.
The property is in the hands of the employees.
The Fortune 500, the pension funds, own more than 50%.
They own about 30% of the listed companies.
But they're heavily concentrated in the Fortune 500.
The power, the property is in the hands of the employees,
not of your company's employees, but of the country's employees.
If you do not build power, then you will have only the choice between,
and I'm paraphrasing John Locke,
the choice between the bloody revolution of 1644 or the glorious revolution of 1688,
but you're going to have the revolution.
The power has to shift to where the property is,
and you have still a few years to engineer and control that shift.
I say that the first one who wrote about what we can learn from Japanese management was I, 20 years ago.
But let me also say that when I discuss Japanese management with my Japanese friends,
the ones who have a sense of history, they are apt to say, as I told you yesterday,
everything we do we learn from IBM, we are imitating IBM.
And they mean it and it's largely true. And fundamentally all the things that you're being told are old Japanese traditions, are brand new and have almost no root in Japan. And some of you know that I'm teaching Japanese history and Japanese art and have been for many years. It's an old field of mine.
And the decision-making system I first saw in the 1930s when old Thomas Watson did it.
And I knew the old gentleman, and I was very fond of him and had tremendous respect for him.
And nobody has ever accused old Thomas of being permissive.
That wasn't his reputation.
And he was an autocrat of the purest, full of idiosyncrasies.
But he had learned that he first, it was a tiny little company, that he first had every one of those half dozen people, maybe a dozen, who were then going to have to carry out the decisions, think through what it was all about.
That was his phrase.
And until then, he didn't allow them to have an opinion.
He had an opinion, but not they.
And only when it was understood, then he moved his lightning speed.
And that's what the Japanese do.
And so they waste no time on selling a decision.
And we waste.
It's unbelievable.
Top management in its infinite wisdom makes that decision, then starts selling it.
And by the time it's sold, the decision is obsolete.
The Japanese pre-sell by making sure everybody thinks through what the decision is all about.
He's not allowed to have an opinion.
If you're in Japan, I happen to be the only foreigner today in all Japanese positions
who is chairman, I'm chairman of a Japanese cabinet committee on the urban problem.
The tradition is when you have a very hot potato, which will ruin the career of any Japanese, you stick it to a foreigner.
And it's a very good tradition.
It enables them to do radical decisions, they blame it on me, and I don't understand Japanese.
And so, yeah, it works.
But, and I see it.
And here are the young people, nine ministries, young meaning 45, who work on what is the decision all about.
But if any of them as much as indicates which way he wants it to go, he gets slapped down so fast.
His job is to say, but this is really a decision on our sewer system.
It only looks like something else.
That's his job, so that we all understand it and know who is concerned.
And that way we also, I always know at the end, even though my Japanese is very limited,
where each ministry stands
and each division heard
even though he has not had an opinion
then one knows where to make compromises
and then when the decision is made
they move with
two weeks
and that we think we can
learn
but that's not a Japanese problem
if you want to read the text on it
it is a book
I don't even know whether
which was written by a Spanish Jesuit
in the 17th century
his name was Gracian
His manual on oracles and decisions also Schopenhauer translated it into German.
And that is a decision.
You find it in Machiavelli.
There's nothing new about it.
Our decision-making in which one makes a decision separate from its implementation
is poor decision-making.
Now, when you look at what the Japanese have learned,
there is no country with the worst tradition of labor relations in Japan.
going back 500 years under Tokugawa, this 250 years military Shogun, there was a
peasant rebellion, peasants were the employees of the time, a peasant
rebellion every nine months, bloodily repressed, bloody rebellion for 200 years
and in 1920s when the young youth people first traveled to Russia, the
then head of the Marx Lenin Institute predicted that the next country was
the communist revolution would be japan look at their labor relations they had a bloody strike
almost every six months the tradition of labor relations in japan is unspeakably bad violent
on both sides and after world war ii when they questioned every accepted practice they looked
at ibm believe me and they copied ibm ibm had begun in 1930 and i still remember the old man
saying it when he went through the plant and came back deeply shaking because the employees he had
were not the labor of his youth the old man had eyes and he said they talked quite differently
and he said they know more about the job than i do and i am not going to let that go to waste
and he organized he abolished the supervisor that day class supervisor and ibm in the plant
for the 1936 became an assistant it is your job to get the knowledge and the capacity and the
desire to do a good job out of the work group and into the job and ibm had the first quality circles
at deming on our faculty who took the quality circle to japan had been the quality control
for IBM before he joined us here, after World War II. That's how he learned it. And he organized
it where the workers sit down each month with a question, how do we do our present job better?
And that was the basis for IBM's commitment not to fire anybody as a result of greater
productivity, which the Japanese also copied. So it isn't that we have to learn anything
for them we just have to practice what we have been known for a hell of a long time and we know
the same thing about market penetration these are all our concepts only we preach them and say
practice them and let me see i'm not enough of a theologian to tell you which one is going to go
to heaven but i'm enough of a businessman to tell you which one makes your profits
The preachers get consulting fees.
The practitioners make money.
What do the Japanese call some counselors?
Consultants get bigger fees.
I think that's a real difference.
No longer useful.
I don't know what the Machiavellian style is.
That is my problem.
If you mean it's a role for somebody who thinks before he acts,
that's what Machiavelli tells you to do, you know,
And not to believe that policy manifestos are policy. That's what Machiavelli does say. There is no Machiavelli in style. Of course, if you mean is it intelligent to fear, which Machiavelli does not preach, by the way, though you think he does.
Well, the answer is where? If you are in a circus and you act like tigers jumping through loops, I don't think there is an alternative. But then you better make sure that your back is never turned.
Bill talked earlier about
not allowing personal
loyalty teams to grow
now that's a Machiavellian
rule
and a good one because
let me say the trouble is
not only that people will be more
concerned for their boss
but also that you are so
limit yourself so terribly
in your choice of people
you talk about all things
the Japanese have only good management
practices, you are wrong. They have some
very bad ones. And the worst is the
loyalty to your, the team
loyalty, which is the greatest
weakness of Japanese organizations
because it means that eight out
of ten able people don't get the chance
because their boss
has lost this current round.
And it is the
worst patronage system there is.
There are exceptions. Toyota
has broken it. But not all.
But in Mitsubishi and Mitsui
it's dreadful and the number of really deeply disaffected younger people in the
government who just because this round went to somebody else and it's patronage
all the way don't get the jobs they're really qualified for and who can't quit
and the waste is unspeakable and now that's a Machiavellian precept not to
allow personal clicks and it's a good one and it's a very sound precept and I
wish our lawyers heard it, that if you have to live with people, one does not base a relationship
on adversary proceedings. That's a Machiavellian precept. And any marriage counselor knows it,
but our lawyers don't seem to know it. And so if you want to have to keep on working with people,
you don't win total victories. You don't start adversary. That's Machiavellian. And if you don't
listen to it you're not going to get very far may i say that you have just now heard what by itself
alone is worth 10 times the price of admission and i hope you heard it very important thanks very much
