Let's turn, what is the future, is government going to go away?
The answer is, it may become a little more competent than God knows we need it.
It may continue as a long slide towards incompetence, but unfortunately it ain't going to go away.
So accept the fact that there is a government in your future.
Well, I usually divide questions in such a conference as ours, such as the symposium,
into three groups. There are the questions where the question never changes and the answers do,
and the ones where the answers never change but the questions do. And in between there are those
where the questions never change and the answers don't either. And I would have ten years ago,
or even five years ago, put this question into this last group.
It's an old question, and the answers seem never to have changed.
And fundamentally, the answer was, and in a way, Bill has given it,
is that managers don't do anything too different today
from what they did 70 years ago.
We only have so many more of them that they have to learn it.
And I am beginning to wonder whether this question is not moving
to where the question doesn't change and the answers do.
But, of course, there are some new things.
Number one, your last question about government regulation.
I'm going to tell you a secret.
The manager, 10 years hence, will not ask it
because he will have learned that there are multiple constituencies.
Today, particularly the business manager, still believes, and it was true,
that as long as he produces a decent product and service,
sells it at a profit.
The other constituencies are restraints,
whether they are employees or the managers afterwards,
but to look at stockholders as foreigners,
or whether they are the government, so on.
And they are beginning to be what any public institution service manager
has always known, they are constituencies,
which means any one of them can veto you,
And yet not one of them is concerned with your success.
And so constituency management, the management of the other institutions in the environment,
the ecology, if you want to call it that, of this jungle, yes, they will have to learn it.
And another thing, one can predict with confidence that the present business school's weakest point
is going to become a tremendous defect.
That is the absence of any real understanding of production management.
We once taught it 50 years ago.
It was a miserable discipline.
A hodgepodge of how many toilets per hundred employees.
You know, look, the first American textbook of management
written by a professor at NYU, his name was Cornell, in 1916,
was still being taught in 1940.
is an assembly of trivial miscellaneous,
from alphabetically organized,
from, because it has no,
there is no discipline of production management.
There still isn't one.
And so for good intellectual reasons,
we have stopped teaching it.
If only because the younger ones,
because I refuse to teach that nonsense.
We will not be able to do it
because the great challenge, the microprocessor is a genuine revolution
in the way we produce things,
where we organize the process of making around information,
where the last one organized it around materials transport.
And we need production management.
And believe me, the MBAs don't know what it is, and they're hopeless,
and the engineers don't know what it is.
And so you can say 10 years hence, we will have to have people who know what it is and who just don't go about it the way we do today, where it's a no-man's land between engineers and accountants, with a personal man in between.
And the third thing one can probably predict is that the manager of tomorrow has to learn to take responsibility for his effectiveness, his communications, his relationship, his career, and his placement.
And today the manager expects the great white father on the 14th floor to do that. And it's much too complex. It's much, above all, the diversity is so great of career paths and changing them.
As Bill said, you have to be yourself.
There is the idea that you can adopt a style that doesn't fit your personality.
I once had a very good friend who was, by way of being a Shakespeare scholar,
he said the one play he couldn't accept was The Merchant of Venice
because it is absolutely unthinkable that even a judge,
he was one and had a low opinion of the profession,
that even a judge could for one minute be fooled by Portia's false beard.
There was a woman, obviously, but it's the most female character in Shakespeare.
One can't fool even a judge by a false beard for more than a minute, except in a play.
One has to be oneself.
There's no foreign style you can adapt.
And so you will have to manage of tomorrow.
I would have to take, again, a degree of responsibility for where do I belong, where do I go,
which basically the last 30 years, or even 50 years, we have not stressed.
So there are new things, but when we need, I think production management,
if any young man came to me, a woman, and said, I want to go into business, what do I learn?
And I said, this is the time for you to go into the plant.
Stay out of the accounting office if you're a young man.
You can't compete with the women.
You aren't bright enough.
And they're all in there.
But the plant, the women haven't discovered it yet.
And learn plant management, production management,
because nobody knows it.
And it's going to be badly needed.
and I would say learn how one finds out that politicians behave like politicians
and what does that mean and how other groups see the world
that you can think through what does the expector mean,
how can we build that into performance
and finally learn to ask the question who am I, what do I do well,
how do I build back feedback from my performance
so that I improve myself and learn what I can do and what I can't do.
And how do I decide where I really belong?
Those are the three things I would say are the new answers to an old question.
Dean Taggart, can you hear me?
May we please say that our dearly beloved dean is here.
Will you stand up, Joe, that we can applaud you?
This building and this school is very largely a living monument to him, and I'm deeply grateful
that you came here, Joe, today.
Thanks.
You know, I'm being asked, I always wonder about the question people don't ask.
And the question about the present administration that people don't ask is, why does everybody
think it makes so much of a difference?
When you look at the election, Mr. Reagan won decisively, but hardly, an enormous landslide.
And let's put it that way, Mr. Carter lost more than Mr. Reagan won.
And when you look at the last few years of the Carter administration, all the things
Mr. Reagan proposed, Mr. Carter was at least talking about, shift towards defense, realization
that maybe the world isn't quite as harmless as the taunt assumed it to be,
and maybe the realization that the more money you move from the producers to the non-producers,
the less will be left over for productive purposes.
What else is new? Why makes it such a difference?
And one clue, by the way, maybe the most important thing that has happened since the 20th of January, is the new Secretary of Defense's public statement in the ATT antitrust suit, which said that breaking up the Bell system would be an exceedingly detrimental thing to do from the point of view of national defense,
which breaks a very old American taboo,
which is a taboo against thinking about anything but a peacetime society
until the day war breaks out.
It's an old taboo.
It goes back to, if you want, Jefferson.
And he broke it, and nobody thought it extraordinary.
Mind you, those of us who know a little bit about the country's defense needs
asked that question all along,
but nobody there would say it
and whether the antitrust
department and the court hear it
I don't know yet and by the
way don't be surprised
if in a few weeks from now
somebody there in Washington will say
what will it do to American
exports if we break up IBM
it's
our largest next to GE
our largest single exporter
and others in agriculture
and maybe one
doesn't take chances. And that would also be unspeakable because the idea that what
happens offshore has any impact on domestic morality and verities is also unspeakable.
So something has happened. And perhaps the thing that is most significant is that despite
the supply-side economists. We all realize that we have lost the, make it almost 50 years, in which
we had a working economic theory. And they came there and say no, and the Friedmanites say no,
and the supply-siders say we have one. But I don't think anybody believes them anymore. By the way,
I don't think the supply-siders believe themselves. For the simple reason that we know that the
assumptions have become dubious and we are in the throes of a genuine scientific revolution in which
the paradigms no longer hold and it's the sixth as Tom mentioned since economics became a discipline
with the assertion which was a brand new heresy at the end of the 16th century that there is an
autonomous economic realm governments have always worried about money and taxes and trade and
individuals have always worried about incomes but economics as a separate discipline is their
modern heresy and was very heretical when it first came up and when you look at it the last one
the Keynesian one and I'm old enough to have been the youngest invited member of the Keynes seminar
and Cambridge in the early 30s did three things of which two were brand new and one was a return
to an old and once discredited basic assumption the discredited one was the macroeconomic one
we went off economics started as macroeconomics and it was such a fiasco the mercantilists
In the same areas in which our present macroeconomics are a fiasco,
productivity and capital formation,
they ruined the richest country of Europe in 50 years, France.
And the more of a surplus they had, the poorer they were.
And the less productive and the more did capital formation fall.
And so the first scientific revolution that of the physiocrats
went microeconomic by looking at the English who had no economic theory
and therefore did exceedingly well.
And let me say, before 1780, there were no economists in England.
It's one of the secrets of England's rise.
And people did what worked and didn't ask why.
And microeconomic, in the 1930s, we went back to macroeconomic.
And the results are the same. I think one can now say, you know, there are two experiments
prove that kind, or disprove a theorem. The purely macroeconomic system does not, cannot
assume, as did both mercantilists and the Keynesians, and never really became one, but
that was close enough, that if only the macroeconomy is in good shape, the microeconomy will take
care of itself. The basic Keynesian assumption, which the supply-siders share, and the Friedmanites
share, that the microeconomy is determined, is like an ideal gas, while individual molecules
may have Brownian motions, the whole thing moves statistically. Isn't true. The individual
molecules have their own dynamics they are not determined and that once and for all basically
makes obsolete any economic theory we have today because we have none other but the two other
Keynesian assertions which were equally were more novel believe me Keynes was quite right when he
said of himself that in terms of economic theory was a much greater innovator than Marx who just
kept that part of traditional classical economics that suited him and disregarded the rest.
And Keynes actually did two other things. He first switched economics to where it had never been,
namely to demand. Before Keynes, every economics we had was a supply-side economics. Demand was
Petro definition unlimited, supply was the problem. And Keynes stood it on its head for
good reasons at the time, by the way. And it's now clear that it is just as untrue.
To say that, as Say never said, Keynes might say that Say's law was Keynes' invention,
as you probably know. In all the books there is no mention of it.
it. But Keynes' investment being a totally dependent function of demand, which is a multiplier
translating consumption into investment and therefore into jobs, has been totally disproven.
In fact, it never worked. It didn't work in the 30s, and it hasn't worked since in any
country there is and so the opposite one that investment as a function of savings and therefore
of supply which says law never quite said also didn't work we have no truly dependent function
except the one that jobs are a function of investment but we have no function no invest
no function for investment the savings function is more new works let me say says law works more
much better than kane's law does but it doesn't work well enough and kane's law doesn't work at
all and we have no predictor in there except that investment creates jobs anybody interested in it
i have an editorial in today's wall street journal called the full investment budget
in which I talk about the fact that the full employment budget which made Keynesian economics
politically operational, Walter Heller's invention of it in 1957 that then led to the Kennedy
economics, that has been disproven. But we now need a full investment budget to have full
employment that looks at the number of jobs we have to create and the capital investment needed
for them, and then looks at, is there enough capital formation for it?
And we can't depend on any indirect dependent function
for the investment function anymore.
But that was central to Keynes, as it is central to Friedman
and amazingly enough central to the supply-side people.
And it has been disproven.
And the third Keynesian one was that Keynes solved
The oldest problem of economics, that between the real economy and the symbol economy, the real economy of goods and services, the symbol economy of money and credit.
The predecessors up till 1870 had looked upon money as being the veil of reality, not reality itself.
and the events that matter happen in the real economy.
That was doubted very early by people like McCullough.
And in 1870, the Austrians said,
this doesn't work at all, we don't play that game.
And it didn't.
One of the main reasons why the traditional Austrian economics
became intellectually untenable
was this refusal of the Austrians to tackle the crucial problem.
This is very much like a physician saying,
I will learn anatomy, but I will not include the heart in it.
It's too complicated.
That is a basic weakness, intellectual flaw of Austrian economics,
which is why we will not return to them,
no matter how attractive they may be politically.
They get their rigor by excluding the central problem.
That's no way of doing it.
The central problem is the relationship between those two.
And Keynes solved it by saying there ain't no goods and services.
There's only money and only simple economics.
Look at Goldberg's book on the Great Depression.
He blames it on a stock market crash,
on something that had nothing to do with goods and services
and only affected purely abstract fictions.
But when you look at the traditional Austin, as Hayek's book on it, the stock market crash
is not mentioned in it, neither works by the way.
And Keynes solved it and we were going to have economic policy by manipulating money
and credit.
And the difference between Keynes and Friedman is one of minor emphasis.
Keynes stresses interest rates and Friedman stresses money supply.
Both have both in the equation.
They're just, the weights are slightly different. Believe me, Friedman is the most orthodox Keynesian around today. So is his politics. Keynes was an ultimate, absolute free trader. Bitterly opposed to government intervention. Not the American Keynesian, but Keynes himself. That's why he broke with people like Abba Lerner or John Wilkinson and John Robertson and so on.
and it doesn't work.
And so we have a genuine intellectual crisis.
Very exciting time,
except this is not the time to study economics
for the simple reason that one can't learn something that ain't,
and it isn't here yet.
You know, I'm paraphrasing a great physicist.
In 1900, the greatest physicist of Europe of the time,
Poincaré, was asked by a young man
whether they should go into physics.
And Poincaré said, young man, this is the wrong time.
The physics you need to learn, I can't teach you.
There is a joker to it.
You know the name of that young man?
It was Max Planck.
And so 1898 or so.
So maybe the Max Plancks should learn economics.
But others can only learn yesterday.
And none of the physicists of that generation will remember.
except a few like the ones who made the new physics and this is a time when this is
likely to happen because one can learn tools one cannot learn basic concepts one can learn
problems we are not even there yet where anybody is willing to admit what Poincare did so we are
getting there we can however describe what we need we need what we have never been able to get
we need an economics that integrates the real economy and the money economy.
Now let's add one fourth point. From the beginning, economics assumed the national state
to be the locus of economics. It arose out of that new political critter, the national state,
which sovereignty meant something very specific in the middle ages, but it did not mean what
you now me the first one to use the term sovereignty in its modern meaning was that
frenchman the most reputable lawyer of his time the lawyer of the mafia of his time
uh who wrote the basic book of modern political science john wood uh who
coined the term national state the national sovereignty uh and by that he meant the congruence
of political territory and economic territory, which was a brand new idea.
And so economics always focused on the national territory.
It's a wealth of nations.
And the last 40 years, a genuine world economy has come into being.
Bill Mays said he doesn't call his company multinational, but transnational.
Well, that's simply saying it is not a confederation of national companies,
but it is something that in which you have instruments in a symphony orchestra rather
than a group of soloists and those of you know the history of music is that when that happened
music changed profoundly and it's never been the same again when you wrote quite differently and
you you heard music differently and just look you only have to do with look with a structural eye on
the pre-Vivaldi and the post-Vivaldi score that's a breaking point and you see it and so that's where
we are and then we have integrating the world economy but we know the three possible ways
here is perhaps the one of tomorrow's economist who's a Canadian who is up at Colombia
and he sees
the world economy and the individual
businessmen or individuals
with national governments basically
restrained. They can only do harm
as the rational expectation
school also says
and you see today's
liberal who will because you always
today's liberal always becomes tomorrow's
bottleneck
who will fight for the national
state as the center
with both the world economy
anti-microeconomy, outer perimeters, whereas Mandel in Colombia sees the world economy
as a galaxy, not a solar system with planets.
And you will probably have extreme microeconomists who will fundamentally see both the national
state and the world economy as restraints.
You see some in Hayek's followers or in Sir John Hicks' followers, if you're interested.
Those are political choices, not theoretical choices, but we do not know yet how to integrate them.
All we do know is that the two economies which have followed the Mandel prescription,
namely to start with the world economy and look upon their own governmental system as a restraint,
the Japanese and the Germans, have done best in the last 40 years.
and the two that have been most traditional to Keynesian economies which saw the national state
as the center, the US and Great Britain have done worst. And that the companies that have
disregarded both have done best. We see IBM is clearly a company or Unilever which thinks in
terms of we are the center of the universe and the rest are planets. And as companies have done
exceedingly well, though they have piled up a host of political problems for themselves
and headaches.
So the middle strategy, in other words, the traditionalists, are least likely to succeed.
But we don't know yet, and we don't know, but it's one speck that we solved it.
And another speck is that we know that tomorrow's economics will have to integrate today and
tomorrow.
Traditional economists have been able to operate in terms of a closed economy
in which there is no tomorrow, a recycling economy, for good reasons.
They could not handle technology.
They could not handle population changes.
They assumed basically a closed system.
And then, you know, you can't explain profit because there is no uncertainty in it.
There are only mistakes in it.
And so you came up, Adam Smith, we owe it to Adam Smith, that invention of profit as being outside the system. Believe me, the moment you see today and tomorrow as a dynamic system, profit disappears. There is no profit.
There are only costs of yesterday and costs of tomorrow, and you have to earn today the costs of tomorrow, or you won't have any jobs tomorrow, you can't have any change tomorrow.
And so we will learn. That is incidentally where we have done the theoretical work.
I can look at any of your companies and can say, you don't break even, even though you report record profits, you don't earn the costs of tomorrow.
because the cost of capital is the minimum cost of tomorrow.
It's the minimum, not the optimum.
It is not enough in a period of rapid change and uncertainty,
but it's the minimum.
So there we can integrate on the micro level.
And the sooner you good people stop talking profit
and stop talking cost of tomorrow,
the sooner will you have understanding of this.
And we know that aspect.
And we know that we will have to integrate, as I already said, symbol and real economy.
And we know that we will have to integrate supply and demand in a meaningful relationship
in which neither is a totally dependent function,
but in which both are dependent variables in which you essentially use modern mathematics.
Those of you who know threshold mathematics or topology know what I'm talking about.
One of the problems of economics is its foundation in 18th century mathematics,
which are not adequate to phenomena in which you have thresholds,
in which up to a point you have no effect, and when you reach the point it spills over.
Some engineers here who have worked on, let's say, the mathematics of fluid flows know what I'm talking about.
The economists have never heard of them. Believe me, there's nothing worse than the mathematics of economists to a mathematician, because they're the best old-fashioned mathematics on the block.
and they're totally inadequate to the phenomena
he tries to work with
which are largely threshold phenomena
and largely partially dependent variables
where at a certain point
you have a total switch
and we have the mathematics, not very good
but we have them and the economists don't use them
and don't know how to use them
they're the only ones, believe me, that will work on the supply and demand relationship
and your switch is investment.
That much we know, but we don't know how to do it.
And finally, we know that the next economics is almost forced
to tackle a problem which the Austrians 100 years ago solved
by saying it doesn't exist, which is a problem of value.
If you go to an economics class any place in the world today,
unless you have the good luck of having a Marxist for a teacher,
He teaches very poor economics and good economic theory because he does not give up on value.
A hundred years ago, economics came to a crossroads.
The labor theory of value, the physiocrats had land, and land didn't work in a commercial economy like that of the British Isles in 1780, 1770.
So Adam Smith put in labor, and it didn't work either.
And a hundred years later, it was quite clear that it didn't work.
You can't explain anything.
you can't explain why wages which are if you relate them to any kind of labor they make no
sense you cannot relate prices if you relate them to any kind of labor they make no sense
no matter how you define labor it doesn't work and so in order to have a rational explanation of
prices supply and demand for instance or wages the austrians gave up value and declared it a
on problem and went into utility and believe me it works for analysis but it doesn't work for policy
you have to have and it's intellectually totally unsatisfactory and it deprives economics of its
relationship to morals and policy and so we know we need value again in 1933 or so when us
youngsters went up to Mr. Keynes and said, why isn't there a theory of value in your system?
He would say, because the only available one is the labor theory of value, and it's totally
discredited. Today we know, we know that if you need a value base for economics, that does what
the theory of labor value tried to do, which is relate economics to the human universe,
because modern economics deals with the behavior of commodities.
That's the only thing you can do with marginal utility.
You need a theory of value.
Then it is going to be productivity, the application of knowledge to work.
That is what really Adam Smith had in mind, probably.
Only he didn't understand it yet. Don't blame him.
The man was 100 years ahead of his time, which is all one can ask of anybody.
But he wasn't 200 years ahead of his time.
So we know the specs.
We also know, I think, that we are not going to have a great towering economist.
The next building is not the skyscraper that Keynes built or that Ricardo built.
It will look far more like the Austrians who built a kind of Viennese car stale,
everybody having a quarter of an acre and a minimum of fences in between.
That's what they built.
There is no towering Austrian economist.
economists they are competent men lots of them maybe 50 including a lot of not of english member
nationality or americans like frank tausig or what have you uh it's a school uh nobody built
a skyscraper and the skyscraper they built site the ones who tried to build one of the austrian
school uh ended up with the tower of babel uh but uh keynes built a genuine skyscraper
in which by the way there are only express elevators there's no local elevator in there
and as anybody has ever tried to go from the second floor to the third floor in the keynesian
edifice you can't you have to go up to the 97s and come down again and it's going to be there
are no great economists in the offing i'm afraid it's too complex uh but we are seeing a lot of
people at work. In the meantime, accept the fact, however, that it's very dangerous.
It is much easier in Japan, where nobody believes that we have an economic theory that works,
where the economists are people with a lot of pragmatic experience who have some good tools,
whom you put to work on a concrete problem, such as what do we do with our pension funds
when the population gets older, where you don't want a theoretical answer but a policy answer.
or is it more likely to work if we use cheap labor, which means moving things to Nigeria,
or if we automate, what is going to be more productive?
Where you can come theoretically out with the answer that is counterintuitive,
namely that total automation will be more productive than the cheapest labor,
and the Japanese acted on it, and it came out right in microchips,
whereas we in Silicon Valley acted on what is intuitively perceptive and shipped the assembly of chips to low labor cost countries,
as a result of which the Japanese now have a cost and quality edge with a very capital-intensive process.
That economists can do in Japan, but nobody asks them what should the economic policy be,
because nobody believes they have a theoretical foundation.
The same is very largely true in Germany.
And we are now dedicated to economists as policymakers.
One of our poor inventions was, I said so at the time,
was the Council of Economic Advisers,
because it came a hundred years too soon.
That would have been like putting in a peer group
in practice of medicine in 1830.
Butchery would become standard practice.
much too early
but we are used to it
but it's going to be a dangerous period
because you will not rely on it
except the fact that we are in the throes of a revolution
maybe this is the time for a genius to become an economist
but it's the time for us ordinary people
to be very critical
to see what piece of work can you do
that is workmanlike
and focused on a pricing problem, on a marketing problem, on a tax problem,
where you have very good tools for a specific and basic economic policy
we can only make by looking at what happens when we do something.
And if it doesn't work, do something else instead of doing more of it.
That's a dangerous period.
And one of the basic uncertainties is not only shift to new technologies
and to a world structure that is very difficult and dangerous,
but also operating without a foundation in theory.
It's not the first time, but whenever it happened,
you had a very high casualty rate, not a depression,
but a rate of rapid turnover because especially large companies
are likely to operate, like to operate on fixed assumptions.
That's very dangerous.
And so we are moving towards the next economics.
But whether we'll get there or whether, like Moses, the Lord will call us to our reward before we reach the Promised Land, I don't know.
It's a safe assumption to take the one Moses did, who said, someplace in Exodus,
I have to lead the children of Israel towards the Promised Land, but I don't know where it is.
Believe me, that's a sound rule for today's economics.
Thank you very much, and we move over.
Thank you very much.
