And one-third of all headquarters companies had left New York by 1968.
And then a very small number of individuals in New York who were heading
large businesses, Chase, Citibank, Pfizer, simply said we have to change this.
And we have to, thanks very much, we have to change this.
And basically there has been no more stunning reverse of the direction of a city than that of New York since the late 60s.
And now not by taking social responsibility for black employment or for all the other things which the good liberals and the good university professors want business to do,
but by doing what business is good at, which is real estate.
And New York basically, all cities that we see, cities are basically a city.
Cities are architectural.
And New York turned around the architecture.
And if you've been in New York within the last three or four years, you know the slums are as bad as ever.
The black ghetto is as bad as ever.
It doesn't make those things have become totally irrelevant unless you are the city tax officer.
But other than that, for living in New York and for working in New York, what matters is the way the city looks.
Cities are basically aesthetics. This is nothing terrible. If you want to know this, Leonardo da Vinci said that in 1542 or so,
when he submitted his plan for the rebuilding of Minerva.
Now, shit is our basic career set. And New York is totally transformed. And that was business leadership, the liberal. That's social responsibility. Now, is that what you expect the leaders of major institutions to do? What is social responsibility?
The things that caused the decline of New York were things business had fought.
Business had fought rent control and exaggerated welfare payments and pension settlements and the lack of investment in mass transportation.
All those things business screamed about to no avail.
And yet basically business then took social responsibility for New York City.
Is that the goal of the only leadership groups we have and how do you define it, embody it, express it, make it effective?
But quite a different thing is when you look at the success.
The success of management has created an expectation which is brand new,
Which is the expectation of economic security on the part of people who cannot earn a living by themselves. Let me say one result of higher education is that you are incapable of earning a living by yourself.
You have been trained to become effective within an organization.
Knowledge is always specialized, and by itself specialization has no effect.
If the only doctor you have in a community is an orthopedic surgeon,
90% of your patients have no access to medical help
because fewer than about 6% of all medical contingencies require or can be helped by a bone setter.
94% require somebody else. You know, bone setters, I know I need new glasses.
I'm beginning to have a little difficulty breathing small breath.
I don't think an orthopedic surgeon is going to help me much.
He is only effective because there is an eye doctor in the community and an ear doctor and a cancer specialist and an obstetrician. Specialization by itself is not productive unless it is within an organized in which the other knowledges and skills are being supplied.
Within that setting, however, that orthopedic surgeon is infinitely more effective than a good GP.
A good GP may be alright for an ordinary broken leg, but for that injured knee after a ski injury, no.
That's a GP better not touch. Or the shoulder that's out of whack.
They can only do that. And so the people whom you and I train are people who require access to an organization to be effective and to earn a livelihood.
And then they have a legitimate expectation of security, because otherwise they cannot contribute.
You may have it in a setting in which you guarantee it like the Japanese do to one third of their people or in a setting in which you have a great deal of mobility as ours, but fundamentally it is inevitable that the job will become a property right.
And don't call this a radical demand. It's a most conservative. In the history of the law, whatever gives you access to livelihood and to estate and to social status becomes a property right.
We talk of real estate because not so long ago the great bulk of humanity could make their living only and their social status only.
Through a little ownership of land, a right to land, and through the aid that the lawyers have assimilated other accesses to real estate, personal property in the 19th century, intangible intellectual property, the only access today for 99.9% of our population is a job in an organization.
And the more education you have, the more dependent you are on of the people with a BA, 92% make their living in and through an organization. Of the people with a master's degree, 97%. Ph.D., 104% of the time.
And inevitably, it's the only place where you get paid for specialized knowledge, because it's the only place where it can be made effective.
And then the job becomes a property right. How do you combine the reconciled with the need for flexibility, for adaptability, for old industries to die and new ones to grow up?
So, the two solutions we have now, the Japanese, is employment security doesn't work. The Japanese are in a more serious crisis than you can imagine. I happen to be the only foreigner, the only gaijin, who chairs the Japanese cabinet committee.
And I do know it. And the crisis is severe. And within the next five years there is going to be a very real problem because so far the Japanese carry a lot of people for whom there is no job because they can't let them go.
The social contract is based on environment guarantee, but it can't be carried much beyond the next five years.
It's a rapid transition in industrial structure.
And in this country, we do with as catch as catch can, and so far it works, but how much longer, I don't know either.
And when you look at the way our legislation goes, and our courts go,
every day there is a new court judgment whittling away their right to hire sex, for race, for age.
The great cause of the next ten years is age. Look at the demographics.
And equal employment opportunities for women have more or less run its course,
except in academia, where we are still in the dark ages.
But other than that, they have run its course, pretty much.
But now come the old, the old time, the older people.
And then the handicap, and one after the other,
whittles down and basically says,
the job is a property right.
And the definition of a property right is
that you can take it away only with due process,
known cause and against compensation and that what this at what point do we have in management
really think that through and think through how this can be made compatible with the equal need
of society for flexibility for traveling for the dying of the old and the birth of the new
and we haven't done our homework but the biggest job is that within the next 10 15 years we have to
think through the basics of this institution and primarily the large businesses and what is making
this unavoidable yes it has to take over but that's the same thing you know some of you may
remember, remember Ron Rainbow talked about his father who worked for General Electric and Harold
Smitty, and I was a consultant in the 50s, and then we concocted at General Electric a new
rationale of management. I had nothing to do with it, though I approved it, and it was said, remember,
that the job of management in the large publicly owned corporation is to be the trustee for the
best balanced interests of shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, plant community, citizens,
remember? And at the same time, it was, we were told, especially by
by Kenneth Borges, that we had reached the age of managerial capitalism in which top
management of the large institutions were autonomous and could not possibly be dislodged,
share ownership being totally dispersed, and they had become professional groups that were
of self-selecting and so on, and professional.
Basically, it was a claim, both were claims,
to enlightened despotism.
The one problem with enlightened despotism
is that it has never worked in history,
simply because the enlightened despot means well
but he has no constituents.
When he gets into trouble, nobody supports enlightened
despotism.
And what happened in this country
is that actually ownership has disappeared,
except as a legal fiction,
because in our large, publicly owned companies,
the title is held by pension funds
who are not owners, who have no intention,
who are not even investors,
who are forced to speculate in the short term.
And this has a lot of very dangerous connotations.
I personally would put at least half the blame
for our falling behind the Japanese on the fact that every management I know and work with looks over its shoulder as a pension fund
and cannot afford to invest in the future and has to look good today.
And this is particularly bad for the companies on which the future rests.
The companies that are already big enough so that they can plan for the future
and still small enough so that they can move and move fast.
And they are the ones who are most investable and most ridden by the fear of the later
and most dominated by short-term thinking when they should think five years and not five weeks.
But that's only a sideline.
Certainly, the pension funds are not owners in any meaning of the term except the purely legal one.
And being trustees, the pension fund managers have no choice but to accept the higher bidder of the radar.
If they don't, let me say, not one of them thinks it's good for the company,
or else they wouldn't immediately sell all the securities they get in the table.
and not one has kept a single security not one share has been kept by the former institution
in of the securities they got in the hospital takeover and more unequivocal judgment as to
what they think of the benefit basic benefit of the bid cannot be imagined and yet they have to
If they don't, in six months from now, that share of the XYZ company sells at $5 less than what the realtor offers, they are wide open to a damage to it.
A trustee has no business substituting his judgment, a prudent man's judgment, which is what you get by adding up the figures today, and so they have no job, no choice.
Now this is not going to last, because one thing is predictable, we are past the peak.
But it has always been a question of difference.
The large companies they own, the large companies they own,
anything within a few hundreds or a few thousands,
especially as we know that not one of the companies that have taken over have done well.
There is not one exception.
without exception, they have all done much less well than they would have done if they hadn't been taken over.
Now this may not be true of a few, but by and large it is.
And the reason is simply that the hostility over totally demoralizes.
If you know any company that has been taken over, or sees itself in fear of being taken over,
its management group falls apart, falls to pieces,
And no rounder tries. Add to this that the top people get golden parachutes, and if you don't know what this thing creates, a way of bitterness in middle management, I don't think you can imagine.
And in fact, the moment middle management reads in the Wall Street Journal that our top management gets golden parachutes, you see those bastards are now going to look for the highest bidder. And they send out their resumes.
It destroys the nation, and all of us in this room know that it isn't Rick and Morty that
produce it, but the human organization.
And so this is all.
Maybe it'll last another three years, though it'll be a long time before we recover, if
ever, from that short term.
But it has opened the question, what is management accounted for?
How do you measure the church? Sure, you'll need short-term results, but they are not the only ones. What else can you have?
The thing, by the way, Ron Bain, whose father and I came in together 35 years ago, and I have not yet found an answer that satisfactory.
To whom and how do you basically build a management that is accountable to the enterprise?
It was a growing concern. Let me say we accomplished this a hundred years ago.
A hundred years ago we did it in this country in the bankruptcy laws.
Till 1896, in the bankruptcy law of this country as every other country, the only interest was that of the creditors.
and then we looked at it and said in most cases this is deleterious it is not input for the
credit where there is a concern their main interest is that of the growing concern
and this was you know the first change of bankruptcy law since the romans and it has
worked like a charm and above all it works for we will now have to learn to do the same thing
without makeup, but we don't know yet how. These are the problems of service. They are not more
difficult than the problems of the last 50 years, which were largely in terms of organization and
managing people and paying people, which we have not yet really solved, let all of you know,
and of strategy, basically in terms of problems that live with the enterprise as existing by itself and in isolation.
Now we have to look at the enterprise in contemplation of the society, the success of management,
especially the society of organizations. That is really their basic challenge.
And I'm not saying that it cannot be done, in fact I'm sure it can be, but if we are not, but if it isn't, all the things we have accomplished in the last three or more, management and society as we cannot survive, because of the problems of responsibility.
Thank you very much, and I best wish you for the next week.
Indecent for a young and pretty woman to give roses to an old man.
Look, I'm against the man, and I do know the order.
And the price of operation is now saddled with minimum hourly of $28, minimum 75% of capacity.
That is bad enough.
But if you assume two bad years, where your capacity rate will go down to below 60, and Chrysler is the weakest of the three, then the labor cost will be $40. And they are not dependent on, you can lay off, but what Chrysler has assigned itself to are workers, which are the most respected ones and cannot be changed.
And that cannot, two years in which if you have a crop sales, America made cars from about 8.9 million a year to 7.2, which isn't that much. That's a 20% crop. That's not even a very bad year.
Christ, no matter how many plants, and it cannot toast too many plants.
Christ has committed himself to not laying off them.
So maintaining employment levels that are exceedingly high.
Now, the union was, I'm talking, telling tales out of school.
These are all friends of mine. They're not clients, so I can speak with you a little.
We're not very close friends.
The union people were absolutely in despair.
They knew perhaps better than Chrysler, but Chrysler's science, rather than understand the economics of the industry better than management, certainly in terms of the tour of Chrysler, which never has been particularly notorious for economic understanding, run by accountants who understand economics.
and so the union people were absolutely in despair but they were forced by their own rank and fire
by the revolt in Canada and Chrysler came in. Chrysler knew that, I believe the Chrysler
management people I know went absolutely in despair of the Australian. They knew when he,
I don't know what he could have done, whether he should have said to his board, all right I
I've earned those $5 million, wait till next year when we restore some of those cuts.
Or what he could have done, I don't know.
But I don't think he even thought about it.
Even though in the same industry, only two years earlier,
a chief detective officer had similarly destroyed one of our oldest and
proudest companies by doing the same thing.
An international officer, I think you all know what I'm talking about.
Only two years ago, Chicago had done exactly the same thing.
Labor costs could not give it to them, not that part of the world.
And no international harvester is no more.
Later, there was not even yet the full-form depression we have now,
but they have made a minor setback and harvester collapse.
That's all you need, I say.
If I don't sound like one of the gentlemen's admirers, I'm not.
I don't like that.
Sir, I like your idea of the job being a property right?
And 99% of the people who get a job make a living.
What about the property itself?
Companies all over rent land, plus more than a hundred.
How about limiting the property?
Some that you buy for 99 years, not more.
So there is more recycling of property.
problems trying the whole proposal uh will you accept the fact that limiting property rights for
200 years would be almost meaningless since uh property that exists for more than 100 years
in practically unknown property the average duration of any property is more of the order
of 20 years property rights are very short 100 years is almost unknown and basically
You know, we have again and again put in restrictions on modern or fiction and the duration of property rights have never been important.
But property rights don't last very long. Property disappears, burns down, is alienated, splintered up.
The duration of property rights, you have to go to extreme lengths such as European, let's say, primogeniture.
But only if it's combined with a ban on alienating property.
Basically, French 17th century, where
French aristocratic families were not
allowed to sell or pledge or what have you,
then you maintain property rights for an extra time.
The problem is property rights is not the last one.
They are very short.
The problem is now property rights basically
are procedural and not substantial.
They tell you under what conditions you can take it away.
So that's the job as a property, right?
How do we, we have reached a point in this country where we have
greater job security than Japan, I don't know if you realize.
First, for a much larger proportion of the population,
lifetime employment in Japan is for 22 and one-eighths percentage labor force.
the rest have not. In this country, if you look at minorities, handicapped, women and the old, 45% of our legal force have preferential job rights to be.
That's twice as many as in Japan. Now we can get out of it through bankruptcy and so on, but not otherwise. That's not very satisfactory.
How do we have the flexibility, the property rights you already have, perhaps a labor force.
And this is about, how many of us want to have women in this?
You have preferential rights, and I see a few minority people.
And there are a few people over 42 in here who are considered to be seen as,
plus the fact that you're 10 years old.
No, no, we have the job of property rights.
Our problem is how do we build it in such a form
that we make it compatible with the requirements
of the economy for flexibility
short of drastic catastrophe.
Those are our problems.
To limit property rights, you don't have to worry
about limiting the duration of property rights.
That was something the Roman lawyers were worried about,
But since about 1100, we have known that property rights are very strong.
Don't worry about the intent of property.
The doors are closed and I can be indiscreet.
Schoolmasters have always trained people for jobs that don't exist.
Unfortunately, education doesn't have enough of an impact to corrupt the young.
Most of us have survived our education, haven't you?
Except for those like me who never had any.
No, seriously. All we can do, but it's important, and believe me, it's important, not just humanity.
It's even more important in medicine, and I've been working with medical schools for 40 years,
and what they're doing is totally obsolete, and we know that the rock of the year 2000 will be quite different.
we don't know yet how to train them or help them. All you can do is to build in what the medical
schools do now. The willingness and the ability of the students to learn. We are much better off in
management because so many of our students are older. I think that if you ask me what's the
greatest advance in management in the last 40 years, it is that our students by and large are
And so many of them have some experience under their belt and can reflect, project what we tell them, their experience, and so many come back again.
And all of you know that the wealth of management education today does not happen in institutions which pay your salary, but it happens in companies and government offices and so on.
And you do. Most of the work is done by people who are teaching management in our colleges.
But they may teach on campus, but it's a group from the county tax collector's office.
Or they may do it in a corporate office.
And believe me, the justice-affecting edge of education is no longer the teaching of the young,
but the teaching of adults, particularly through management.
And that is to make sure that your students realize that what they learn, the most important is how to learn, how to change, how to reach for new things.
And then preach to friends that the ones who really need what you have to give the most are not 22-year-olds who, by the time they get to where they belong for 10 years later, it's gone.
It's those 35 and 45-year-olds first time now that really are in a job where they need, where they understand, and then I hope they will have acquired the habit of coming back.
I hope that the management is best taught to people who have 10 years of experience.
And fortunately, that's where the center of gravity is shifted, and that, I think, is our great achievement, that we have gotten across, and it's the management people, that the people who, you know, and I went to spitefully to everybody, that when you stop going, those things are cut.
There is almost no thing in between, not yet common, but in this country, that's one of our greatest, and this country has become accepted that professional people, the more they need, the more they want to go back and learn again. And I think that's the greatest strength this country has, and it's a solid achievement for our management. That's what we have to talk about.
