don't sell as well either. That's right. Peter. Thank you very much. We need to call
people in. So that's more than I'm willing to talk. Let me first say that I'm delighted
to be back at the Graduate Business School at NYU, which for 22 years was my home and
where I still feel very much at home.
I'm delighted to see so many old friends in this audience.
And, okay, and very grateful to my old friends and colleagues,
Bill Goose and Dale Sand, for being willing to share this day with me here.
And you know I'm going to break a rule of a lifetime today,
which I learned when I was a young banker in London and my senior partner
who was a wise old man said Mr. Drucker if you forecast either for 30 days or
for 50 years and not for in between people have long memories and I'm going
to forecast for 10 years or so and I only hope that you don't have long
memory, because I think one can say with very high probability that the human resources management
job a few years out, and I don't know whether that's five or seven or three or eight,
but we are in the transition, will look very different from what it has been traditionally.
First, it will not be a staff job, not even.
Maybe in name still we are very good at maintaining labels, even though we change the contents
of the bottle.
It will be an operating job, which, by the way, outside of this country it has already
become, especially in Japan.
It will be the job that makes people's decisions rather than advises on them very heavily,
working with the line people but not just at their elbow.
And it will increasingly be concerned not just with hiring people and training them
and putting them in jobs, but with the design of the job.
In fact, I think one can say that the biggest job ahead of us
is to look at the existing jobs and redesign and rethink them.
And it will be very much concerned
with strategic planning.
In fact, after the, I would say, almost total failure
strategic planning based on financial planning and you know in a way I came in
at the beginning and it has not really worked after that I think we will learn
we are beginning to learn to plan with two pillars one is marketing and one is
people and we will learn to start out with the availability of people what
kinds of people and what numbers, because numbers will be pretty critical, and will
then factor this into as a major positive factor, a dynamic factor in planning
direction and strategy increasing. And so let me say why I think these are the
directions in which we are going. One is because, as we know, I went up to Bill
Goose's office this morning and the offices here have not grown any bigger
since I left. And when the three of us tried to get into Bill Goose's office, one
of us had to stand outside. And that is a sharp change from when I was here.
We could have three people in an office, barely.
Now two, and you overflow.
Because Bill now, where he should have another human being, has a computer.
And it crowds out people.
And he's complaining that the university still doesn't have electronic mail.
If he ever gets it, even he won't be able to be in that office.
as we restructure organizations around information that this changes the character of the organization
and not just the character of information and that to the extent to which we actually
learn to base ourselves on information we need fewer and fewer and fewer managers
I think some of you may remember, I said it in this room a couple of years ago, that the prototype of the organization of tomorrow is unlikely to still be the military of 1870, from which we first learned the organization.
it's going to be the symphony orchestra. And if you see, not just here, see one of
the late Mahler symphonies, let's say the seventh, where there are 1,000 players on
the stage. By the way, that's always been the reason why I had very limited use
for Mahler. Haydn could do just as well with only 38 people. I've always figured
got those 1,000 by an overkill. But still, here's the art. And here is that lowly triangle.
And you know, if you go by our management books, that symphony orchestra should have
a chief executive conductor and four vice chairman conductors, at least four, probably
five, and 16 senior VP conductors, and God knows how many department managers. Instead
of achieving that lonely triangle placed directly to one conductor because both know the score
and because that triangle takes information responsibility upward responsibility and that's
an extreme case uh when it is not a completely valid analogy uh because the score has already
been written and then a business reorganization we write it as we play uh when so maybe a jazz
combo in which you uh improvise is a better analogy but still i sat in listening uh last
what a year ago in last july to a jazz festival in colorado springs and there was a wonderful combo
of 36 players each improvised in turn not in turn as the spirit moved him or her
and not even a conductor and again they don't know the score but they share the information
and so whenever we have moved towards information based organizations we have found that most
levels of management turn out to be information relays have no decision responsibility
very little management responsibility and become redundant and we are replacing them with
groups of specialists like the bassoonists each playing directly to maybe not all the way to the
top but directly with very few intermediate layers when that is I think moving very fast
and it means a change in the way we structure first it means that we do need a central point
in the organization where that is takes looks after people that is conscious of people
and work with them and because we can no longer depend on layers of intermediate managers
to note uh just the sad conductor is the one who uh runs the uh test for a new clarinetist
himself and doesn't delegate so increasingly we will have to have some place pretty high up and
central in the organization especially the large one which works directly with knowledge people
each having high skill, but each having limited. But also, you know, that creates a problem.
The Modern Symphony Orchestra was created by Gustav Mahler by a very simple method. By the way,
it provoked the first musician's strike in history. He moved into the Vienna Philharmonic in 1896
when it was a fifth-rate orchestra.
And within a year, it had become the leading musical organization
of the civilized world by a very simple device.
Each of these musicians, and there were great gentlemen in each,
was a professor and taught at the conservatory,
and there were enough people easily pushed around.
Each of them was supposed to play five evenings a week.
And Mahana said, yes, indeed, you are on duty five evenings, but you will only play four.
The fifth evening, you sit out in the audience and listen.
And there is a letter on record from his greatest instrumentalist of the fifth bassoon, who
was a very great man, in which he protested and said, I love to play the bassoon, but
I hate music.
Mind you, you could have been a computer expert, you know, because you get exactly the same
letter if you force a computer man to go to a management seminar, haven't you gotten it?
Mahler answered, by the way, I love music, but I hate the bassoon, but Mahler never used
it.
There are very almost no bassoon parts in Mahler.
So and then that bassoon is called a strike, it's the last.
But Mahler had to increase his salary 50 percent.
And that's a funny story, but not without relevance, because you will have to make sure
that these instrumentalists hear music.
But if you play in an orchestra, you hear only your own instrument.
If you are the computer specialist at Citibank, and you have a few here around, you know only
your own computer and you really don't want to know anything else and yet the performance of the
information-based organization will heavily depend on your knowing the score and that means somehow
be made to hear the music and about the only way it can be done is by you're being exposed
enough in task forces maybe in job rotation and this requires somebody who
watches over the human organization and make sure that the people in it
especially highly key knowledge people are exposed to the music one way or
another, not just by getting a report, but by having to listen to it, by having to participate.
And this is going to be increasingly important. Especially, let me say, as most of these people
will not want to leave their specialty. And that person has no desire to become a first violin.
All he wants to do is have more music with good bassoon parts.
That computer specialist of yours wants the title and wants the salary,
but he wants to keep on playing with his computer.
And on top of that, his concept of long-range planning
is to get in more bigger and faster computers.
And that's basically what to him is progress.
And so, believe me, it's a market researcher, and so is every knowledge specialist.
And then we have to have a place that makes sure that while they are indeed become better specialists,
they are also learning how to reach the score and to participate and take up responsibility.
And another reason which is quite different, though not connected,
is that the next few years are going to be very difficult for the management of people
since the new people we are getting in are inevitably going to be profoundly disappointed
and disenchanted and, well, I wouldn't say rebellious, but bitter.
When you look at the younger people in your organization today,
the people are under 40. That's now the oldest baby boomer is turning 40 this year or next.
And when they came in, there was a vacuum. There are people here from the Chase Bank,
so I hope they will forgive me my telling the story. I had, well, it was messed up in
1953, and I was teaching down here, not in those new buildings, of course, we didn't
have it, when I got the call from an old boss of mine, boss during World War II, who was
chairman, can you all hear me, Martha, can you hear me? I was chairman of the Chase when
it was just merging with the Bank of Manhattan, and he asked me to chair the first joint management
meeting of the two banks, and I was greatly flattered. And then he said, you know, Peter,
this is not because I think so highly of you. This is because nobody from either side could
hear you. It has to be an outsider. And this was a command performance, assistant vice
president and better. And in Princeton, and if you didn't appear, your resignation had
been accepted, and quite a few didn't. It was not a hostile takeover, but not a friendly
merge. Those two organizations for 100 years, they had been the chief enemies in New York
banking, and for them to go to bed together was quite new. And I was in my 40s, I was
44 and the next youngest man in that group of about 600 bank officers or 400 was 57 which by
the way explains why that merger worked a few years later there wasn't anybody there anymore
they could never really accept the other side and then no new york bank had hired anybody
after 1929 for reasons which some of you may have heard of and uh and our schools looked the same
way when i came in here was a wonderful faculty but within my first six or seven years practically
all my colleagues retired they had been here since what the school hadn't hired anybody since
the early 70s. And so it went. And so the young people came into a vacuum during a period of
tremendous economic expansion, and they rose very fast. And now their nieces come in, or their
cousins, and they expect the same promotion, and they cannot possibly have it, no matter
how well the economy might be doing.
The pipelines are full,
which, by the way,
may be the single most important reason
for the tremendous entrepreneurial explosion
in this country.
The young people come in.
They're being trained by Citibank or by GE
or by Allied Chemicals
for five years and learn something.
And then they look and see that that assistant vice president or that director to whom they report is 28, and the assistant vice president to whom the director reports is 29, and the vice president is 32, and the senior vice president is 34, and the executive vice president, who has to go on, you know.
and they figure out that they're all going to wait 40 years
and then they are available to go out
and become the marketing person for a small company.
And believe me, whenever I sit down and talk with the people
in entrepreneurial companies,
they say, how come you are here and where did you start?
Oh, we started in Security Pacific.
Why did you leave?
oh, the bank is fine, they treated me royally, they overpaid me.
But, you know, I couldn't see myself being a branch manager for the next 28 years.
And so you will have people who need to have their expectations changed.
And that, believe me, can only be done if you restructure their job.
In any period in which you have an acute, you know, it's the law of nature that before you can have somebody in front of a class, he or she has to have sat on their rear end in that class.
So before, if you have a baby boom and you suddenly increase the number of kids,
who almost tripled it, you have a shortage of teachers for 20 years,
until those babies get to 25 years and can start teaching.
And then you always have to make the job more.
If you look at our school, extreme example, when I first got to be on a school board,
elementary school had a principal and teacher. Seven years later, when I left
the school board, there were two assistant principals and a curriculum
coordinator and five other administrators, simply because the
teachers were all green. No teacher, you know, that old... When we moved back into the New York
area, that teacher who was the thought-share trader my son was, had been a
a teacher for 30 years and there was nothing eight-year-olds could do that she hadn't been
through. And her successor, who taught the same boys the next year in fourth grade, was straight
off college. And, you know, eight years, nine-year-olds are easy to teach, my teacher friends
tell me. But that poor woman, she lived next door, came over to weep on my shoulder every day
simply because what nine-year-old kids did, everything was new to her.
A perfectly normal kid, well-behaved kid, but still nine-year-old.
And then she needed an assistant principal and a curriculum coordinator
and a reading advisor, and we built those super staff in our schools,
but not just in our schools, every place, to make the infant job easy.
And that will no longer work, because people will have to stay on these jobs, maybe not the entrance job, but the next one, a very long time, and we will have to redesign jobs so that after five years, they're still challenged, even if they're very competent.
And mind you, this isn't the first time. When I came in, I was at age 21. I was assistant managing editor of the big newspaper with a circulation of almost half a million. Not because I was any good, this is 1930, but because the ones who should have had that job were lying in the offices of slaves all over Europe and afterwards, in England particularly.
afterwards were ones that just weren't any 30 year old competent men around. They didn't exist. And
so you had to put the green kids, and there was one, into that job. But also normally a newspaper
like this has one managing editor, assistant managing editor. We needed four of us to do that
job because none of us had, we were not even ready to be good copy editors after a year and a half.
So, and then one has to, when that is over, one has to learn to restructure the job. So that's
the second challenge. And this is probably the biggest and toughest job human resources people
faced and then after it the third one that they will have to develop policies procedures
and compensation because our policies and procedures are largely uh refinement development
from what we first developed to cope with unskilled blue-collar industrial workers
Personnel management is a creation of World War I. Suddenly, enormous numbers of free industrial
people streamed into the munitions factories in every belligerent country. And because, unlike
the Industrial Revolution, they had substantial political clout, and nobody there risked a strike,
in World War I, and so instead of being treated with a whip, as the predecessors had been
treated in the 1840s, they had to be looked after.
And this is how our personnel management was created.
And if you go back and read those things, the International Labor Office published in
the early 20s, very largely written by the first personnel vice president in human history,
who's still alive, by the way, who was an American, Tom Spade, who then became
personnel vice president of General Fulton. Somebody told me Tom, at age 95, is still
around and in good shape. You will find that we haven't changed very much. We have improved a
a little bit. He wrote English. We now write sociologies. I don't know whether that's in
advance, but it's a change. So it now takes six pages to say what he said in one paragraph,
which from the point of view of an author and a publisher is absolute progress because
you get paid much more. But that's the only aspect of which is progress. And otherwise,
It hasn't changed very much.
The only real change is in this country, the coming of the unions in the 30s.
And that labor force is rapidly becoming history.
In developed countries, the semi-skilled machine operator, blue-collar worker, by the year
2000, were maybe not quite as far into the limbo of history as domestic servants are
today. In 1910, in every developed country, the largest single employee group were developed
by domestic servants. They outnumbered industrial workers in the U.S. two and a half to one.
Any of you who met one lately? Any of you can afford one by the way? And that is very fast, the way blue collar work is going. In development for a variety of reasons. In manufacturing, in service hospitals and so on, we still need good things.
And by the way, if you have any delusions that medical costs, health care costs will come down or you will be contained, the labor requirement in hospitals makes it absolutely impossible.
If you look at the age structure of the population, which means not only increasing demands on
hospitals, but increasing demands for chronic, for long-term care, not for overnight, which
is primarily a function of unskilled labor, some unskilled labor, not of the great surgeon
and not even of the trauma nurse, but of somebody who carries a bedpan and makes a
bed and take temperatures and run errands and what have you.
And then look at the labour supply as a mismatch that will force wages up no matter what we
do, and wages are still 70% of hospital costs.
So any dream of healthcare costs going down is a pipe dream.
out in manufacturing, but also in a good-money service industry.
If I look at the banks, most of them have already replaced full-time, semi-skilled work,
such as a teller, with part-time.
And we are now rapidly trying to go to where we can do with fewer and fewer and fewer tellers.
And at the same time, all of you banks cannot hire enough MBAs, which is very good for us
in the business school, and I hope you'll keep on.
And you'll find more and more work when you, in my days, Delia just told me about one of
your sons who is training to be a margin clerk at a big brokerage house.
In my days, one didn't have to train to be a market clerk.
Now this has become a high-knowledge area, and so all of them have become.
And you will, therefore, have a very different labor force.
In fact, it isn't a labor force at all.
It takes that word out of your vocabulary.
This is a management force.
Even if they don't have a management job, they see themselves as equal.
They may be juniors.
You know, they're just as that graduate assistant whom we use in the university to take that section of the freshman English course.
He's not labor and doesn't see himself or herself as labor.
They see themselves as faculty in training.
and all. If they are any good, that's what they are. They do not want to go to faculty
meetings because nothing is more boring than a faculty meeting, but they insist on being
invited, and they are right. They are colleagues, and they are younger colleagues, and that
And that is what knowledge workers are, there is no hierarchy in knowledge, there is only
older and younger, there is only more learning, more advanced things and still learning things
we know, there is only working on knowledge we don't yet know and acquiring knowledge
We already know.
But there is no hierarchy of people.
There's only a hierarchy of knowledge.
And that's not something we have any control over.
That's a fact.
And then we have to learn to manage large bodies of colleagues.
And we don't know how to do it.
I'm not saying you don't know.
I said we don't know.
I don't think anybody yet really knows.
I was at a very big state university the other day and just read that the president thereof
will be president of Princeton, Michigan.
And I talked to the dean of the faculty, who is a former student of mine, and she said,
you know, fortunate, fortunate, we have had no budget.
If we have one, I don't know what to do.
I don't, I know how to cut budget, but how do you actually reorganize a group of people?
And I said, how many?
And she said, you really want to know 5,200.
Now that's a disease and incurable, but that is very, that's a big state university.
How do you, where everybody basically has a specialty and every specialty is just as
important as any other and everybody has a high degree of knowledge and everybody either has tenure
or is on a tenure track how do you and we don't know and believe me those are the kinds of human
resources problems and then let me say we will have to learn to make knowledge work productive
and we don't even know what that term means and you may say that's the nature of knowledge work
and i doubt it because you know less than a hundred years ago nobody knew how to make manual
work productive and nobody knew how to define productivity that's an achievement of essentials
till then all people thought they knew was how one works harder not how one works smarter let alone
how one works effectively and so we have to do it now for knowledge work and that will challenge
the way we organize it the way we structure it but we will have to do it because it has
become the cost center and then it has to become the profit center and then we can't any longer
manage it so as to minimize cost then we have to manage it so as to optimize yield and we don't
know how to do and so let me conclude by saying that we are in the midst no perhaps not in the
beginning but past the beginning and the fact that we are changing the title of our people from
being personnel manager to human resources manager is a symptom so far all it has done
is to entitle the human resources manager to a bigger salary and that is all to
be commended but it's not enough we will have to learn actually how to do it and one implication
of this is that the career ladder is going to change tomorrow's human resources will not and
cannot come out of a traditional personnel and human resources area they have to have the at
least the respect and acceptance of their operating policy. But that's not enough.
They will have to be able to understand operating work for having been there.
Ideally, tomorrow, yes, you'll have specialists. But even they should not really stay in their
specialty too long because it was likely to become sterile unless they understand the nature of the
operating job and that you can only learn by having been there yourself you you really don't
know the crisis in manufacturing until you have been at the receiving end until then you're a
consultant. And you know the motto of the consultant is always to operate the
guy's phone. And if he had done what I told him 11 years ago, he wouldn't.
So, no, you have to have been there. And so maybe you start, although I'm not
greatly when working in human resources but don't stay there very long and maybe
tomorrow at the same time we will before we put people into top job oh then I
have to been in the human resources area though they really understand what is at
stake there and what it means to get the managing people as a resource and this
colleagues value and so both the career ladder and the career direction of the human resources
people it's already changing and it will change drastically and by the way this is a footnote
i have been trying to sit down and think through what it means for the way we teach in the
management school, and while I can't give you the answers, I'm reasonably sure that the way I used
to teach it, and I came in here teaching it, that isn't going to last. It is a bundle of tools and
methods, and you will have to learn to teach it as a way of seeing the entire business we face in the
human resources area some of you older ones will remember when we moved from teaching selling to
teaching marketing and we haven't finished that yet 30 years but we have gone a long way if you
look at what we do here at the VA or what Michael Porter is doing at Harvard or Phil Kotler at
Northwestern and we will have moved the same way from teaching personnel management there's
something that tries to introduce some order and some system and then have carbon copies
into the growing organization into something that sees the whole business the whole organization
in one of its critical dimensions as human beings engage in joint performance and those are some of
the things and that leaves us 20 minutes and still i'm afraid i've talked longer than you were really
willing to listen uh thank you very much will you tell us who you are i am afraid i have to ask you
to share my ignorance because that's about all i have i think we can say a few negative things what
it is uh it isn't uh we are not yet ready to quantify eventually one has to because first
we have to define what results are what i'm saying in that highfalutin fashion is that there is no
joy in heaven or earth or an engineering department a digital that with great
diligence and great industry and tremendous knowledge produces the designs for the wrong
product and so you have to define what is output
