And so you have to define what is output.
And we are nowhere near it in most areas.
Let me say where we have made the most progress
is in a few top medical schools.
We are in a far better position to talk about the productivity,
let's say, of the eye surgeon
than we are about the productivity of marketing people.
because it is fairly easy to define what are results in the cataract operation.
It's fairly, it's much easier.
When it comes to internists, we have not been able to do it.
If I talk, if I knew yourself in working on this with some major medical centers for more than 10 years,
internists are very hard because basically, but even there you have a quantitative test.
That's what the pathologist finds when he cuts up the corpse, but then you really have
no test, because in turn it's basically the productivity is the right diagnosis, and that
is not quite that easy to define, let alone to quantify.
But we do know that it is doing the right thing rather than doing quantity.
We do know, maybe that's already bragging, we think we are beginning to know that in
knowledge work, the basis of productivity is placement of the person.
In other words, that the key to the productivity of blue-collar work, which was basically the
belief, well expressed in that old phrase of a fair day's pay for a fair day's work,
that basically everybody can do their work with some masculine machine work equally well
except a few truly handicapped people.
But otherwise, there is no reason why anybody who has two arms and two legs and two eyes
and maybe two ears can't put on 60 bumpers an hour on a car.
That assertion of the homogeneity of the human race,
which is an assertion of universal incompetence, by the way,
That cannot be maintained for knowledge work.
There, the basic rule is that no two human beings are alike,
and that you can only produce by putting strengths to work,
and not by putting incompetence to work.
And that, therefore, placement is the key.
And for this, you have to know the performance strength of people,
not their potential.
Will you please accept that we began to work on potential around 1906, and every test since then has shown that there is no correlation in knowledge work between potential and performance, because the differences in yield are so great.
Here is that gifted editorial writer who produces nothing, and somebody much less gifted who just keeps on plugging and is willing to rewrite and is willing to do the hard work.
Maybe he's not going to get the Nobel Prize or even the Pulitzer, but he'll turn out first-rate copy.
And the potential, the one you look at what he produces and say that fellow is first rate,
only he doesn't produce it.
And the same is true in all knowledge world.
Potential is a limit.
When any coach, by the way, can tell you that for athletes, they have to have the potential,
but that doesn't tell you whether this person is going to be a ranking tennis star at age 18 or not.
So, your placement becomes crucial.
And then we do know that essential to productivity of knowledge work is concentration of effort.
Will you please, by the way, accept the fact, you know, if you go to – I know this – if
you go to the symphony tonight, and there's a New York Philharmonic and Lenny Bernstein
is conducting. And he'll start out with a Rossini overture and then play the Haydn cello concerto.
I think that's his program. Then play one of his own cantatas and end up with a Mahler symphony.
Much the bigger program. Won't be over till 1130. But you know, then you look at the score
and most, except for the first violin, most of the instrumentalists, most of the time don't play
They count balls.
And you say, if you're any kind of a manager,
that you really could play all those five pieces together
and it would keep most instrumentalists reasonably busy.
I don't think Bernstein is going to do it.
And if he did, I don't think any of us would stay very long.
And knowledge work is going to be,
knowledge organizations are not going to be diversified.
Partly because the communications problem becomes hopeless, and knowledge people don't
do as you tell them to.
They do as they know how, and then the score has to be clear.
And it has to be, I wouldn't say simple, but it has to be in common.
And your right hand may not know what the left hand is doing, but it's got to play
the same score, and so the diversified organization of today isn't going to survive.
Maybe you have a holding company, an investor, that's different, but managerially, no.
And we finally know about productivity of knowledge, that you sit down every three years
with every group and look at what they have contributed and then say, and what do you
think you are going to contribute to the performance capacity and the results of this company,
this university, the next three years.
And you will find some problems, but at least they'll identify them.
There is that research group in your pharmaceutical company, and within the last three years in
our labs, we have made a breakthrough in the understanding of the genetics of cells that
maybe in 10 years from now will enable us to diagnose insipid cancers very early, which
probably the greatest single step in cancer, maybe 10 years hence.
And at the same time, somebody has come up with sugar-coated aspirin,
which from a scientific point of view is totally nothing.
But you know, sugar-coated aspirin was the greatest contribution to the practice of pediatrics.
The basic problem of the pediatrician is that the brat's mother can't get the medicine down his skull.
And he can prescribe it.
And that's why elderly pediatricians never said to the mother, give him an aspirin and put him to bed.
But they always used to say, take an aspirin and put him to bed.
And now you, the brat, swallows the aspirin.
And that, scientifically, it has no value.
Economically, tremendous value, but a real contribution to the practice of medicine,
which scientists don't like to hear.
What is more valuable?
You need both, but at least you define it.
And that is as much as we know now, but except one little joker in this pack.
In all knowledge organisations, you need people who bootleg, you need people who say,
I know they are wrong upstairs, and I know they have told us there is no money in the budget.
Let me say, we won in Europe in World War II at least a year earlier because five very junior
people bootleg. And largely because Patton didn't meet his specs, he wanted an armored
vehicle that could move very fast and over any kind of terrain. And so he vetoed the
development of the gun carriage, which is heavy and slow because it carries that heavy
gun, naval siege guns, actually, and if it can do five miles an hour on a paved road,
it's doing fine.
And Patton wanted something that can do 40 miles an hour over a plowed field.
And so it was not in the budget.
But when Antwerp was blockaded and the Battle of the Bulge came, we had 250 of them.
They made the difference, because five junior people in Erie, Pennsylvania, had bootlegged
it.
And they knew Patton and the high command was wrong.
They knew that money, we had plenty, it wasn't a problem of money, time we didn't.
They knew that if we ran into a stalemate where the mobile war, which is all we were
prepared for would park down you would need what is ineffective moving fortress uh and so we're
right and nobody ever thanked them needless to say in fact bailey escaped being court-martialed
but one needs the bootleg up to up to a five percent margin we know that and one of the
basic problems of the research director or of anybody who handles knowledge people is
how to encourage them without encouraging them, how to create a climate in which they can function
but not one in which they take over. That's one of the toughest jobs. And I can show you people
who can do it, but they can't tell you how they do it, so you can't replicate it. Okay, you ask
asked a short question so you got the long answer.
Did you all hear the question?
You know, these are areas in which my old friend
and colleague Dale Zant here is particularly competent.
But he told me that he wants me to try to answer it
so that he can contradict me.
I hope he will.
If he does, I hope you listen to him.
He knows more about these things than I do.
And you raised, basically, what you are saying.
The job is changing.
The jobs and how do we prepare.
And there are all trends that make the management of people,
the human resource management, more important
and require strong and highly centralized.
You talk about global.
you know today in the multinational we rotate if we wrote it at all people at the very top
you start in the german company in stuttgart until you are about vice president of that company
of the subsidiary of the german company of the american company you stay in stuttgart
And then at age 38, they move you to maybe to Spain or to this country.
And in the first place, you are not very eager to go because it's the wrong age.
At the age where most of the developed countries except Japan, you have to tour in a family
and your spouse has worked very hard to uh and is now a partner in an accounting firm and she
is going to give it up and your kids are in high school that's the time you don't want to
uh approach them except that we will not be able to move people around in their 30s and 40s from
now in case you haven't found out yet and by the way for academia this has some very
major implications the reason why i was there at the university in michigan
was that they find they can't get back even at a time when there's a shortage and a club
of phds not in business but uh people aren't going to move to ann arbor because that means that their
wife what what can you do if you are a CPA or a dentist or what have you or a
market researcher what can you do in Ann Arbor where the only employer is the
University and I think that Cornell Michigan the universities that are large
places in rural settings are going to be in very serious problems in 19 they will
not be able to get faculty. And believe me, we will have to learn the only way you can
have a global company is to have people who know the world because they have been there.
And you will have to move that young German engineer to Spain or to Peoria when he's 25,
When he's 25, at an age at which he's easily movable, and when you're still young enough
to have a girl in every port, you know, that becomes kind of strenuous after he's 30, a
big amuse for young people.
And so, and when he does a job that is still not the...a job that's the same every place.
And so ten years later, when he's in the management of the German company and he needs something
from the parent company, he doesn't have to go through a channel.
He knows Joe because he has worked with Joe, he's gotten drunk with Joe, he's gone skiing
with Joe, and he can call and he knows Joe, and if Joe says, don't worry, Hans, I'll take
care of it, he doesn't have to worry.
And that's the only way you can build a global team, and that is a personnel job, to make
sure that enough young people are exposed, because that German manager doesn't want to
let him go.
This is a very able young man who's going to hold on to him.
He's not even going to tell you about him.
And that fellow, that manager in Peoria, has already somebody in his own group whom he
wants into this job.
For this, you have, just as the military has found, or the Catholic Church has found, that
if you want to be able to move people, you have to have somebody who makes those decisions.
Operating people won't make it, they'll be holding on to their good people, they'll
never have enough of them.
And they may have commitments to their people, they are not going to bring an outsider in.
And you are talking about marketing, and will you accept the fact that it's your job to
make sure that enough of your young people and enough of your senior people are actually
marketers?
And I don't need...
One of the most successful American multinational companies, American Hospital Supply, was built
by a very simple device.
Carl Bayes, who built it and who ran it
till it was merged into Baxter Tavern last year,
himself and every one of his executives
on the bonus list, three levels down,
spent three weeks a year selling,
taking the place of a salesman on vacation.
The only country where it didn't work was Japan,
because those American and French and German
executives didn't know much Japanese,
and you have to know Japanese to sell a Japanese hospital.
But his Japanese people sold in this country.
They spoke poor English, and this was a very tolerant
country in terms of language.
The public didn't do a good job selling those movies,
but they were also selling Our Lady of Mount Carmel Hospital
in Montesquieu.
with indifferent results, I imagine, but they learned a lot.
And you will have to, and every one of his young people
spent three weeks, his scientists, his medical people,
he had a big manufacturing sector, his manufacturing people,
spent three weeks selling.
During the vacation of a salesman,
his place was not taken by another salesman,
by a non-salesman.
And that created a company that knew the customer.
And that was its success.
And you didn't have to wait for a report
to hear that the hospitals are changing the way they buy,
and where traditionally, you know,
if you had a hospital,
and you had a nun who got such bad varicose veins
that she couldn't serve on the patient bed anymore,
you made her purchase engagement.
because that you can do sitting behind the desk.
And that was no longer good enough suddenly in 1960.
And so the buying of the hospitals changed drastically
because they sent the younger nuns, in those days they still
had them, to an American Management Association seminar
in purchasing, or to an evening course at NYU in purchasing.
And you had a professional.
And they knew that long before hospital management
had an article on it, because they had run into that woman
and realized that they couldn't any longer.
Traditionally, their main role was
to say to that nice nun, sister, you don't have to worry.
I take over the job, which you are totally
unprepared to handle, and I'll order for you.
And the sister was grateful.
But suddenly you had a tough lady in there who knew what you was doing and said, how much does it cost?
You had to answer that question.
And you had to realize that it had changed a little bit.
And so let me say, all these changes presuppose that you have somebody pretty much to the center who has the ear of management who can say, our traditions are becoming counterproductive.
Okay, and it's time for the coffee break.
