As we reconvene, our first, obviously, working on the development management about the mix-out.
We told me, how are we going to find?
Yet, at the same time, the plan is each other.
Before opening it up for discussion, remarks.
I don't know whether that's in response.
For your information, Dale, I want to ask you a question.
About participating management, you know, you and I have always had trouble really getting
the controversy going.
But I have to say that the last few months is the result of a day I spent taking care
of my five-year-old grandson his mother came out on a business trip and so she left him with us
and i took care of him for a day and by the way he made it clear that he
that decision was made by his mother without participation
and so i had him and he had gotten out of bed with the wrong foot that morning
and nothing I suggested to you,
Mrs. is approved, whatever I said, she said.
That's it.
And so in exasperation, I said,
Chief, what would you like to do?
And she looked at me and said,
Grandfather, how should I know?
I'm just five years old.
And a few hours later, lunchtime,
and I said, Chief, would you like to fix a table?
And they said, yes, I'd like to.
And so we decided that the grandfather was the person.
And he said, you're often enough, and you know what to do.
Make your own decision.
And he looked at me and said, there isn't fear that you force me to make a decision when you know the right answer.
You know, that's the perfect question.
Only a five-year-old is question.
And I was quite disturbed.
But, you know, there's nothing.
I think, about education management, it was basically that little boy realized that, I
don't know if it was sham, but that basically, that's my job, you know, that's what grandfathers
are paid for.
And I think there's a lot of, and I don't think we really know how to be grandfathers.
Well, I think that grandson.
He didn't think so.
Well, he didn't.
Strength.
Sounds to me.
I think we should open it up for questions from the audience.
Questions?
Yeah.
Practice your principles, Professor, such as fewer layers of management,
increasing status control, and changing from far away to another stage.
In the process, we're also beginning to practice, or at least trying to understand and practice
what we call matrix management.
Obviously, none of us, some of us don't understand very quickly what that means, how to go about
matrix management, just from what's effective for the all-out effectiveness of the algorithm.
Would you comment on that, please?
You know, it's a term, matrix management, I try not to use because I don't know what
it means.
It is something that needs to be done, but basically it's an admission that we cannot organize.
And therefore we have to appeal to people who use their own best efforts to keep things going, even though there is chaos.
And this is sometimes unavoidable.
I talked during the break with a former student of mine who is here, who is now in the administration of a big teaching hospital, and basically the floor nurse can only run, floor nurse executive officer of the hospital, can only run things by matrix management, which is when there is a crisis at 3 in the morning, that inhalation therapist reports to her.
And she can get that inhalation therapist to work on that old woman with cardiac intubation.
And normally, the inhalation therapist is not under the control of the coroner.
And that's a very old form of matrix management, only nobody in the hospital calls it that.
They don't call it anything, simply the emergency foot.
And you can't do it any other way.
And when you run like you are in Citibank, aren't you, are you Citibank?
No.
What?
I don't know what it is.
I thought you were Citibank.
When you are in a big world bank, there is no other way but matrix management, because
you always form ad hoc teams.
And then let me say we know how automation is effective.
part of the prescription is five years. The idea that you can put it in and it works is plain silly
because you basically say people have the responsibility to keep informed anyone who might
conceivably be impacted by their decisions and anyone of whom they conceivably do depend
because sooner or later they will have to work in an ad hoc team with them and they have to take
organization with responsibility you have to substitute the willingness of people
