together for heart structure. And that requires, I've never seen it work in less than five
years. At the hospital, it's now a hundred years' tradition, and it works. But not painlessly,
don't kid yourself. And in your big bank, they're trying it now, and it doesn't work.
Of course, they haven't done it long enough. And it's basically putting organizational
responsibility on everybody.
Haunted matrix, have no great part with your name.
It pretends that we have a structure,
when in fact we don't have one.
And it requires constant willingness
on the part of the leaders of the top people
to work on the relationships.
And if they don't do it, it won't work.
then everybody will protect his or her turf and everybody will say this ain't my table
and that's what you usually get so you have a five years period of getting people into the habit
of working together and of taking information responsibility rather than using information to
keep out the others would you agree and that's all i can say you know that's it look you all
knows the story of sufficiency expert needless to say a german who thought that nine months was much
too long to wait for a human baby and to thought that you could shorten the period to one month
by making nine women pregnant that is let me see a story of the human condition and in matrix
management people don't unwilling to believe that it takes five years of hard work and wherever it
work that's what it takes and you can't be before and have you can't shorten and example because
what you are basically saying we cannot tell you how to operate because that depends on the
situation and here you are in tokyo in charge of the branch of the american bank in tokyo
and after 10 years of vowing and quoting,
the first major Japanese company comes to you
because the Japanese bank can't do what they need
and they need $60 million to build a plant in Brazil.
And then you go to headquarters and they go to London
where they still know how to, better than any other place,
how to put a deal together
and the money is found in Frankfurt and nobody is, there's no, and that's matrix management
in which that corporate, the fellow who is in charge of the Hitachi account in Tokyo
works with commercial bankers in London who in turn work with a retail banker in Frankfurt
And that we call matrix management.
It simply means that you can't, nobody can possibly do the job alone,
and you have to create an ad hoc team, and for this you have to know each other,
and you have to know where to go.
And here is that floor nurse at 4 in the morning,
and that patient was going to be discharged the next morning,
and at four in the morning he goes into shock.
And you can't, the resident, the nurse knows more than the resident at that stage.
She has seen more of that.
And then she has to get the resident and the cardiac people
and the oxygen tent people and what have you.
and maybe won't be enough time for an x-ray, but for an electrocardiogram.
She has to know where the resources are and to have to take her authority for it.
Or the patient is dead by five.
That's matrix management.
And it's simply a term for saying there is no structure that is predictable
and no structure that can be organized in advance.
We are depending on the ability and willingness of people
to organize our resources for the task at hand.
And that takes a few years.
It's not easy to do.
You have to know everything.
But it's not easy to do because you have to have mutual trust.
And mutual trust cannot be ordered.
Mutual trust has to be earned.
That takes a few years.
The thief...
...feel that any of the existing
human resource tools have...
