Thank you very much, Bill. And I'm delighted to hear that free enterprise will survive till 2015. That's one of the more optimistic forecasts I've heard. And I mean it.
Let me say I recently had reason to go and dig
into the social literature around the time World War II
broke out.
And there were very few people in any country
who thought it at all remotely possible
that free enterprise could survive a world war,
let alone the inevitable post-war depression.
And as you know, we haven't done so badly.
And so it led me to thinking, to question,
what explains that these last 45 years in whatever
part of the world the communists didn't manage to take over,
by and large, moved into a free market or a market
economy with a minimum of restrictions
on the movement of capital, some substantial restriction
on the movement of goods, and very severe ones
on the movement of people.
But capital, by and large, is moving very freely.
And with, certainly in developed countries,
a freedom of access that was unknown,
not only in the interwar years, but when you go back,
really by and large even before world war one uh and one answer is of course performance
uh maybe the decisive turning point was when a german economist who found himself
minister of economics under the american occupation defied his american masters and in 1949
overnight removed all government regulations and restrictions and currency control and rationing
in a still starving and impoverished germany and released the
german economic miracle and another turning point came two years later maybe three years later
When in an occupied Germany, occupied Japan, a Japanese civil servant, whose name was Yoshida, defied his American masters who were totally, don't believe, said we were the bearers of free enterprise.
In those years, we were the bearers of controlled, planned, government-regulated economies, in part because the then administration we had solved its internal problem.
It could not get through the measures the left wing of the Democrats wanted in economics, and yet it could not get rid of them.
So it solved the problem by shipping them into power positions in the occupied countries of Germany and Japan.
And they there tried to legislate what the American Congress wasn't willing to accept, and Japan particularly.
And here was a Japanese bureaucrat who defied his American masters.
And in 1952, even before the peace treaty was signed, basically removed, not government control, that's the last thing a Japanese would do, but turned around the way government control was exercised as a restraint on business to a support for business.
And he, MacArthur, let me say, the Korean War saved that man.
MacArthur was so angry at him and at this defiance of what everybody knew
were the immutable laws of history that he asked for his head.
And the Korean War broke out and MacArthur was in Korea
and too busy to get rid of Mr. Yoshida.
Maybe those were the two crucial events.
And from there on, there is performance, and instead of the post-war collapse, which everybody knew was inevitable, and the 35% unemployment, we got the fastest and quickest and most comprehensive expansion of the economy, the world economy, we have ever seen.
But I think it is clear now that we only postpone the question of the structure of an advanced
industrial economy.
We did not solve it.
I know this is not what the people in power in Washington today believe, but I think the
fact that they are really now batting their heads against the wall is in large measure
the result of their deluding themselves that we have the answers and they're obvious and they're
generally accepted and we are facing a crisis because of our success and when you look at what
is the crisis it is basically a crisis of legitimacy and it's most pronounced in the
leading country that is this country uh in 1950 or so when we were flush with the first uh signs of
unbelievable success and i don't think you people can realize uh how much success it was and
because it was in the few of us who had not accepted the
The government gospel, not because, let me say, we were terribly impressed by the way
the market had performed.
Between 1918 and 1938, the market was no blessing.
But because we were even less convinced that government knew the answers, because we didn't
think that government knew the questions.
few of us, and you have no idea how few we were, were terribly. It was a period of great elation
when you saw what happened in Europe, and then you saw a few years later what happened in Japan,
and a few years later, the biggest development boom history has ever known got going in South
America. At the risk of offending you, South America is the success story of this century,
and not the failure. And so we kind of, perhaps in a fit of arrogance, thought we had found
the answer, and some of you here may remember. No, I don't think there are many around here
That in the early 50s, we concluded that modern management, or as good many people concluded, modern management, especially in the large corporation, was the first governance in the world that could really succeed on the basis of performance without having a boss, without being accountable.
the shareholders had become so dispersed it wasn't AT&T alone that had more than a million
shareholders not one of them owning more than a couple of hundred shares same was true of PM
and of all the biggest that they had ceased to count when so a hard-working competent management
could work on the performance of the business or the institution
and do it by balancing and in the process balance the claims and interests
of a number of, we call them constituents today, we call them stakeholders,
the people who were the financial investors and the employees
and the customers and the suppliers and the communities and the community at large
and this was gospel and then we did something in full innocence no not in full innocence
with full consciousness on the part of the few of us that we were doing something that would
we were sure, once and for all, settled the social problem of the 19th century.
We invented the modern pension fund.
Now, in this room, there's a representative of a much older version of TIAA, the teachers,
who in the 20s solved the problem of the survival of the privately non-governmental educational
institution in the U.S., which was very seriously endangered, by inventing a pension fund under
which a fairly, I wouldn't say minimal, but a bearable burden, a non-governmental, private,
non-profit institution could provide for the future financial security of their people,
and without that, believe me, we wouldn't have private universities. In a way, when we then,
30 years later, invented the corporate pension fund. There were older ones around, AT&T had one
for many years, but it was basically, all it did was buy government bonds. When we invented one,
General Motors invented it, we tried to copy TIA, and we were defeated. And I was present at what
may be a critical turning point, a board meeting at General Motors in which a proposal by management
for its pension fund was turned down under the threat of a strike by the Automobile Workers
union but that was part of it also under the uh carrot of a promise by the company's investment
banking advisor that the way the stock market was going to go if you go for a defined benefits
pension fund you would never have to put the pen into the pension fund the stock market would take
care of your employees uh and this amazingly enough was not the reason why walter rusa vetoed
a defined contributions plan he vetoed it because in any defined contributions plan there is lurking
under the bed the possibility of the employees contributing to the plan and walter was not
willing to settle for anything except something that from the point of view of his employees
members could be sold as being free we tried to convince him that his members were more
intelligent than that we tried to use the zan's argument this morning that even blue collar workers
know where the interests are he didn't believe us and i have an unhappy suspicion that he was right
that they really believed it was free.
And so we went into a plan, which at the time,
I don't think we know, we knew,
but we suspected that if it worked,
it would be copied and it would convert,
and this was why we wanted it.
It would solve the problem of the 19th century,
of the conflict between capital and labor,
by socializing ownership in the large publicly held corporation
without nationalizing it.
And you know, it's been the greatest success of any social innovation
in a very long time.
And today, as all of you know,
the pension funds are the only real capitalists around.
Compared to them, the Hunt Brothers or what have you,
even they get the museum, are very, very poor, almost.
I wouldn't say beggars, but lower middle class.
I mean, all they can afford is champagne.
And I don't know whether you know the famous definition of lower middle class
in the first modern social census, the British census of 1910,
the first one that defined socioeconomic status,
and the defined lower middle class
as people who can at most afford three servants.
So on that basis, I think the Huns probably qualified.
And now we have to find the solution
to the problem of the success of this great social innovation.
And there are two problems,
and both are equally crucial.
One is that it has not solved the social conflict
because we have not made the pension fund
a vehicle of identification of employee interest
and enterprise interest.
The Japanese at the same time faced up to that problem
and some of their American advisors
advisors urged them to go into the pension fund.
And they said no.
They are now going.
And they said no because they didn't think
it would solve the social problem.
Also, at that time, life expectancies in Japan
were still so short, 47 years, that the pension plan would
benefit almost the number of people who would survive
to get a pension would be very low.
Today, Japanese life expectancies, you know, are larger, longer than ours.
But the main reason was that they said after 20 or 30 years in which unemployment in Japan reached up to 50 percent in the 30s,
employment security is the first need.
And so they invented or extended lifetime security, which earlier only government servants had had.
through the rank and file, and this is now their social problem, but we aren't going
today to talk about Japan.
And for 30 years it did solve the social conflict in Japan.
I think when the Japanese, as they now have to, will have to lay off people and admit
to the unemployment rates, and it's already higher in Japan than it's here in all likelihood,
it's hidden. The social problem will re-emerge with a vengeance. And the reason why I'm not
optimistic about Japan is not because the Japanese face very great economic problems.
Those you can trust the Japanese, they can face up to. But because they are likely to face,
again, a major social one. But let's go back to this country. And the pension fund has not
solved our social problem, and it will have to.
Especially as we move to a society of non-blue-collar
workers, people who want to identify with the enterprise,
who want to feel that it's my business, not I'm an employee,
I'm higher than.
And then the pension fund, how do we
build the stake of the employee into meaningful participation and we will have to go back to the
model we spent 30 years ago that of teachers who are the only major institution in this country
which successfully but with very hard work over 50 years has made its insured its annuity
holders active participants in the governance of the institution to the
point where most of us feel that teachers is our organization and I think
we will have to learn to do that in the pension fund but you can't do it if you
have a defined benefit fund because then as all of you know the results of the
pension fund have an immediate major impact on annual earnings so that any management no matter
how uh far-sighted it wants to be is forced to manage in terms of short-term pension fund
earnings and as a result we have built into our economy the a total loss of the balance between
long term and short term and you know it is stupid to say that management should be concerned with
the long term management's first job is a balance between the two and it's a never-ending job and
there is no formula and just as in the hospital you have said old woman who is very sick and
tomorrow we operate and if the operation is successful there is a good chance that you live
another 20 years and even enjoy it. We get rid of that, whatever it is. Yeah, but first she has to
survive the night. And if she doesn't survive the night, the most advanced high-tech surgical
technology doesn't do her much good. And you have to survive the night so that you can survive 20
years. And on the other hand, you know, what's the point of surviving the night if by next noon you
did. So you need the balance. And everybody in management knows that almost every decision
you make is a balanced decision between short-term and long-term, between employee costs today
and having a management tomorrow, between satisfying the banks and cutting back your
service to your customers so that three years hence you won't you'll have satisfied banks but
you won't have customers and so on and you know it and uh today we are forced to forget that there is
no point in surviving tonight unless you have a chance for 20 years but also that the oldest
lesson of financial history is that profitability is not the sum of profits. It is distinct and
different from profit. Short-term results accumulated do not give you long-term results
precisely because all short-term results, if they are not a balance, are a delusion,
and we are forgetting it and the reason and it shows very clearly you know if
you ask what are the competitive competitiveness is a buzzword but when
you look at an American performance there is no reason to worry about the
American competitiveness we are doing quite well not a maybe not even B plus but I
I would say a little better than the B-minus when you look at our exports.
And that's the percentage of manufacturing production in the world
that is contributed by American companies.
And that's how we are doing in the gross industries.
Gross industries we do on an A-minus basis, by the way.
And the Japanese said it's at best C-minus.
No. Our problem of part, first, a government surplus that almost demands a trade deficit.
Without it, we would either have a major depression or raging inflation, or both.
And the short-sightedness of management that whenever a decision has to be made, sacrifices,
even the medium-term future, to immediate results, and has very little choice.
Because with the kind of pension plan we have here, you run the ABC company
and 80% of your stock is hold by institutions,
and if your next quarter doesn't show what the securities analysts expect,
You face a massive sell-off by the institutions or a hostile takeover.
So where can you squeeze six cents a share out?
Well, out of the pension fund.
The contribution these days is larger than profits in practically every company.
And so you put pressure on your pension fund managers to do better in this year's stock market.
And they, in turn, put pressure on the companies which they hold.
in a vicious circle which accentuates the short-term vision and short-term outlook all around.
And the hostile takeover is simply a symptom of this, a consequence.
It aggravates it, let me say it aggravates it,
because the pension fund holders, pension fund managers being trustees,
have a legal duty to accept the hostile takeover offer,
whether they think it's good for the company or not.
Here is my publisher for many years, Harper & Row,
and they had a hostile takeover.
And these are owner-managers,
and they were very unhappy about selling out.
But they are also the managers of their pension fund,
which owns 21% of the stock.
And here is Harper and Rowe selling at the stock exchange for $24 a share.
And Mr. Murdoch offers you $65.
Just assume they had said no.
And six months later, the Harper and Rowe share would sell at $24,
which is all it can possibly justify on the basis of present and potential earnings.
What Murdoch expects to get out of it, I don't know.
but it's his money, not mine, but other than prestige.
And he sells the 24, and then any employee of Harper & Voe,
and then the outside shareholders,
could have sued a man, the trustees, for dereliction of duty
and would have won triple damages.
This is a breach of fiduciary duty.
But that only aggravates it. It isn't the cause.
And the reason for this is that fundamentally we have created, we have eliminated ownership without a substitute for it.
Because a pension fund isn't an owner, it's barely an investor, it's a speculator, and has to be.
And yet it has the title of ownership.
And on the other hand, we have eliminated accountability of management.
It turns out that the old political theory that one has to be accountable for something to somebody,
or else one is a despot and illegitimate, that still holds, and that good intentions are no substitute, therefore.
And so with the hostile takeover simply spotlights, highlights, a crisis of, call it constitutional crisis, of basic concepts, created by success.
It's always the toughest.
Now, we do know, let me say, I think one can say that the hostile takeover is a thing of the past.
Not only because we are going to make it increasingly difficult legally, but also because it rested on asset values not having been adjusted to inflation.
And that adjustment is largely over.
There are no pickings anymore.
All that's left is what Murdoch did last month to pay 65 bucks for something that perhaps you can squeeze it up to where it's worth 30.
But that's all you can possibly do.
There isn't, in a very competitive industry with tremendous overcapacity and very poor distribution, there is no way for the leaders to improve their performance.
You can only take it away from each other, and as all of you have learned, you can only take it away from each other if you sacrifice profit.
So that's all there is in this industry. That's all that's left.
And those two things will, I think, very fast put an end to the hostile takeover,
including also the fact that most of the existing
heritages of the inflationary period
have by now been liquidated.
Most of the companies that diversified
because they didn't know what to do with their cash
and it lost value every day
have by now divested and spun off
the great bulk of those things.
They have all learned that they don't know how to manage them.
One of the wholesome lessons of the last few years
is that you can't manage businesses by reports and good intentions.
You have to know what you are doing.
And to know what you are doing, you have to understand the business.
And we have learned the lesson again.
Mind you, this is the third time in my life
because I came in as a boy in the aftermath of the European inflations,
and my father, who was the leading Austrian government servant in the economic sphere,
was asked by the Austrian government to leave the government
and take over the chairmanship of a bank to liquidate the stranded post-inflation Wales.
So for three years I heard nothing else around the dinner table when I was 13 or so.
And then I came into banking in the 30s and made a respectable living and earned a lot of money for my employer by liquidating the stranded whales, such as insult, of the inflation of the 20s.
And then one learns that managements have to know what they are doing, or they will
only make the bankers rich.
And will you please accept the fact that they don't need us?
Lawyers, accountants, and bankers have a much more powerful patron.
They have Uncle Sam.
They don't need us.
And so we are almost at the end of the liquidation cycle.
Most of those extravaganzas have faced up to reality,
and there are still a few around.
Anybody wants to liquidate USX, I
think that's going to make somebody rich,
but it's going to be very hard work.
I don't know whether life is worthwhile.
But there are a few around, misbegotten ones that quite
clearly cannot possibly work.
But not very many.
most of them are gone or going and so the hustle takeover is over but the problem is there
the problems because we have two and let me not talk today about the pension fund and how we
can make it be run for the benefit of its two beneficiaries because that's its problem
yeah on the one hand the law says unmistakably that the pension fund trustees have one fiduciary
duty to the future beneficiary and at the same time the law equally unmistakably says that in
a defined benefit fund the management that put in the money is the boss and simply because the
results of the pension fund immediately affect the results of the company for whom the pension
fund is a trustee and those two are incompatible and we tried to point this out in 1950-52 in a
series of learned legal papers and nobody listened and it's pretty obvious and how we're going to
solve it. I have my prejudices, but I don't know the answer. But it's going to be probably solved
by the defined benefit plan, disappearing within two years if we have a stock market down there,
because it's going to be too expensive. And believe me, there's one thing about the stock
market old JP Morgan who ought to have known was asked by a bright young man what he could say
about the stock market he said there's only one thing young man to need to know about the stock
market eventually it will always go down and so that is wisdom and when it does this for 18 months
then most of our defined benefit plan will have been either dissolved or converted into a defined contribution plan,
and we will have solved that problem, not ideally, but somewhat,
and have given up, however, in the process the great hope of 30 years ago
that the pension plan would solve the social problem of the 19th century.
the incompatibility of interest between the employer, the enterprise, not the
capital and the employee. The capital is that yesterday, the enterprise is today
and I think we will forget and that we leave the question of the accountability
of management and let me say we know for what but we don't know to whom. For what is
reasonably easy. We know how one makes that balance by building into the system
the yardsticks and measurements that go beyond the immediate short term
bottom line. We know, and I hope everybody in this room knows it, that the short
term bottom line is capable of infinite manipulation. I hope I'm not the only old
accountant in here but any old accountant knows that the old story that ends with the words of the
you know the fellow looking for a controller the one who got the job was telling me what you needed
to be the question was how much is two and two and the one who said tell me how much you needed
to be got the job he was the accountant the other one was a statistician said two and two is 3.9
with 80% probability.
And then there was a long-range planner.
But the accountant was the one who
says, tell me how much you need it to be over the short term.
The bottom line is that it's not a very dependable measurement
of anything.
And that's why old financial people like me
start reading an annual report from the back where
flow of funds statement is. That's not so easy to fake. It's a necessary, but by no means a
conclusive measurement. And we know that market standing, performance as innovator, and
productivities are the ones in which short range and short and long range are balanced. And
And therefore, if you build them into your system, you have reasonably reliable guideposts.
So we know what management should be accountable for, but to whom and how.
For a long time, a good many of us have been preaching that you need an effective board,
and a few of you have worked on it.
And the ones who have worked on it are better off.
He says so far an effective board has been the only defense, real defense, against the hostile takeover because they can mobilize the community.
But it is not adequate.
And how do you build accountability into whom for the survival of the enterprise there's a growing concern, which is also the most, gives you the highest return on the investment.
You all have heard that nine out of ten of companies that have been taken over do less well a year after than they did when they were taken over.
The figure is closer to 100.
There are almost no exceptions of a hostile takeover
because the hostile takeover has to run the business for the very short term
so that the takeover artist can repay himself and pay off the bank loan.
And then he has to milk the business, and within a year, profits go down.
So, we know that this is not the road to give the shareholder optimum or maximum returns,
even though if you leave out the short term, you also rob the shareholder, but you rob
everybody.
So, we know how to balance it, but we don't yet know how to build this accountability
in.
This is the question of the rest of this century.
It is most acute in this country because we lack the buffers.
If you look at Japan and Germany, the real power is not exercised by stockholders and
not by management, it's exercised by banks, by commercial banks, whose main interest is
not in the dividend or the capital gains, but in the commercial business of that company.
Here is the largest bank of Europe, continental Europe, the Deutsche Bank, and almost more
than one-third of its total revenue comes from one account, its Siemens.
And they directly and indirectly control 70 percent of Siemens stock, but I don't think
they even look at the stock price, because about four-fifths of that income is the commercial
worldwide business of Siemens.
mundane things as letters of credit for exports of x-ray machinery and that then
so the bank has no interest in short-term returns it is concerned with
the market standing and the basic soundness of Siemens and the same is
true in Japan and so these two countries in a way have been not legal legally the
banks don't exist, but an actual constitutional authority there which looks at a business
in terms of its long-term and short-term, of its financial returns and its financial
strength, of its market, because it is, in fact, the first thing a Deutsche Bank looks
at Siemens is market standing, because half of that Siemens profit is financing Siemens
sales financing Siemens export business and so that's where the great bulk of the profit comes
from and so market standing as far as Deutsche Bank and Siemens are concerned are more important
than the profit margin far more and that gives you a balanced view maybe too conservative too long
range. The Japanese and the Germans have rightly been accused of being too much
concerned with the long term. Also, let me say, their shareholders have done much
better than ours, far better, but three times as well. So maybe it isn't quite too
unbalanced. But in this country, where the intermediary is not a commercial banker,
But a short-term speculative investor, we face that problem nakedly.
And in the next month or so, the hostile takeover is out of the way.
And within a short period, it will be something people write PhDs about,
which is always a clear sign that it has nothing more to tell us.
And in the short run, after that, we will tackle the problem.
to whom for what we know the answer to though very few management yet really have equipped
themselves with the instrumentation board the measurements they need they're using them fitfully
but they're learning but to whom and through what agency and there is a grave danger that in the
next crisis whether it's depression or inflation we will see government moving into that spot
as it has in sweden where boards are basically government appointees oh
today in japan there is a struggle for power between the banks if you want to understand
japanese politics today domestic accepted that the only the real issue is one that isn't being
mention it is that for the that
