to the spinning to this stuff and some bright indian put pedal wheels bicycle wheels on a
spinning wheel and tripled its output at the same time cutting the amount of physical labor in half
and it's banned in india it's on the black market but thrives on the black market uh and you have
And it's impossible, I tried to convince these good people,
that a poor country cannot afford a welfare population.
A rich country can.
A poor country can only afford people who produce.
And they don't believe it.
And when you come to Indonesia, you may have a very similar proposition.
Now, one part in it, there are two parts to this.
One is that there is a kernel of truth that our prevailing attitude, which sees, based on our recent Western experience, which believes that investing capital is always productive if it saves labor, which is no longer true even in the West, is not right in most developing countries,
where you have an unbelievable amount of highly trainable people coming into working age so that
the trade-off is different and if you start out with the formula that works in Cleveland you have
you are not going to be productive in Ahmedabad they are your most productive investment is
training of people, not machinery. And again, some people understand it and others don't,
because they know that productivity is an end result of all factors. And where the factor
relations are different, one looks at it differently. And so somebody from that little
company that has a slight edge in the computer field and shall remain nameless told me that,
the Indian business, which, as you know, they gave up rather than share with the government,
had a higher total productivity than the German one. And yet, the labor per unit of output of
people was much higher, but they trained them. And they rather did not use nearly as much capital,
which in India is scarce and expensive. And also, if you realize that you have a government that
does not really want any private company, but wants government companies so that you
will be expropriated sooner or later, maybe you don't put in too much equipment.
And incidentally, since the Indians don't believe in training, having taken over that
little small company isn't going to do them any good in two years from now.
It'll stop producing anything.
It's already beginning.
Productivity in the one year the Indian government has had that plant has gone down 40 percent
Because they don't train.
They don't believe in it.
And so that little company was quite right not to share it with the government
because it's going to have that Indian market anyhow as an export market.
On the other hand, when you go into Indonesia,
a country I happen to know a little bit about,
you do not have that train of labor.
Indonesia is a country in which there's a population surplus,
But there's a shortage of people on the land because it's a country of very high productivity of agriculture,
a country where the agricultural changes have had tremendous impact.
And you have a real need for trainable people, particularly supervisors, middle management in the fields.
And you have a shortage of trainable people, not of bodies.
And there, you probably have to invest capital very heavily.
And when you move into the Chinese non-communist countries, where you have had the greatest
productivity increases, and I count South Korea in it, it's a Confucian country, there
you had a very different equation, highly intelligent people, in which your greatest
asset is a large number of educated people.
And you have a very different ratio that makes Hong Kong or Korea productive, between capital,
labor, and management.
And so will you please accept the fact that one looks at the factors, projects them over
five years, don't project further out, becomes too uncertain, and then says, what is appropriate
here?
And in Germany, where you still get skilled craftsmen, because they have high reputation,
Special training, the only country in the world where a master wouldn't trade places with the executive vice president
and enjoys a reputation in the community.
And this being schooled systematically, one can build around high craft skill.
Yeah, but don't do it in France.
There's nothing like it there.
In France, you have to use engineers.
And so it goes.
So will you please not generalize and not be a philosopher, but analyze and accept the fact that the Germans are entitled to having skilled craftsmen and respecting them, and it's a resource, and the French are entitled to have contempt for manual labor, no matter what you and I think about it.
And therefore, craftsmen in France are a vanishing breed, even in the kitchen.
In five years from now, you'll have to eat pizza.
And that presents different problems of optimizing productivity.
The people who are leaving, I think, are right, because we are now getting into inflation.
And since there's nothing you can do in your shop about it,
Let me say the causes of inflation, chicken and egg in a way, there's absolutely no doubt
that the central cause of any inflation is government, as long as we allow government
to issue money.
I think within 10 years, you're going to see that Fred Hayek's heretical idea that banks
start issuing currency because government is totally incompetent to do so, will be picked
up.
coined the name for the first stable bank currency.
It's a Hamilton.
And so, but governments create inflation
and the incredible expansion of governmental activities
and spending every place since the Kennedys who started it,
basically, is the root cause.
But then inflation destroys productivity or damages it
and that then becomes a vicious spiral
since in order to maintain real wages, real incomes,
when productivity is either do not go up or go down,
you inflate more.
And so I think that if you want to come to grips with it,
there are two ways.
One is the political one, which is the lazy axe,
so that banyan tree of government
that's cutting out all other sunlight,
and that's political.
And the other one is managerial,
that is to go to work on improving productivity in your shop and you need
both but only the latter one is under our control as managers the other one is
remotely influenced by us as citizens but both are equally needed that answer
your question if I were in control which thank God I'm not I would say run your
company in such a way that at two levels, there is direct living and working together.
Mort Feinberg says touch, and I think he's talking as a psychologist, rightly so, but
living and working together.
The multinational company needs to have its young people work in a variety of areas and
get drunk together at age 23.
This is high touch.
and the other activities.
So that 20 years later,
when you run that Swiss subsidiary
and you have some problem,
you don't have to go through channels,
but you know that fellow in Chicago,
and you know he ain't very bright,
but he'll go to work,
and if he says,
don't you worry about it,
I'll see to it you don't have to worry about it.
And you need that,
for that one has to live together
and work together.
as young people and then at the upper levels one needs to meet people in a situation that is not
problem focused that is not agenda focused where one can put the feet on the table and say now you
let your hair down because and i learned it from mort feinberg many years ago people do not begin
to talk about what is important to them until you once clocked it, Mort.
Didn't you?
About 18 minutes, what did you say?
What?
What?
12, yes.
After 12 minutes, the real reason for their coming to the office.
That's why I learned from Mort not to have the typical meeting you have,
which is a 10-minute meeting, either two minutes or half an hour.
And I mean it.
And I learned it from Dr. Feinberg many years ago when he did those studies.
And so once in a while, let me say, the old multinational did it, you know.
The gentleman who ran W.R. Grace up till 1950, a portly elderly Irishman,
went every three years, commandeered a Grace ship, a whole ship,
and went and disappeared for six months, every three to five years.
And then he had time and social time, and he got to know these people
and their wives and their children and then he knew what the letter meant but he did not discuss
business on these trips he discussed people and i think he had wisdom and i'm not saying do nine
months we don't but yes use the communications media to eliminate the operational meetings
operational travel, and replace them with focused, organized meetings. Don't reach
for the telephone every time the way I do. Think through first what you're going
to say, but even more important, think through first what you expect the other
person to say. Makes them productive. And then to be able to see him, and to be
able to hear him, and to be able to say, let's run off that table, that we
We can all look at it and find out whether you see in it what I see.
That makes this possible.
And then schedule, not often, meetings that are focused on getting to know each other at the top,
where you can then sit down with the people and say,
what's really on your mind?
Where do you see the opportunities for this business and the problems?
What are we doing in head office that helps you?
Where are we stupid and blind?
What are we doing that you just don't understand?
And on the other hand, here are some of the things, you know,
you have a habit of coming to us screaming for help when it's late.
It's your job to make sure there are no surprises
and to tell us six months ahead of that cloud.
And you don't do it.
You wait till the first hailstones are down.
and you make it impossible for us to organize ourselves.
And for that you need time and do it very rarely.
A friend of mine told me yesterday that today he's taking the Concorde to Paris
and tomorrow he's flying back.
And I said, I hope she's pretty.
And he didn't get it.
Because that is the only thing one can do in one night.
