an inside focused measurement, but didn't meet the wrong one.
And so, more on modernity, we work only on the outside.
What goes on outside the institution is, what goes on inside is.
Anybody here who works in a counseling hospital?
You say in a counseling hospital, it's by now over, but 30 years ago,
One of the real problems was that the Catholic hospitals were not fundamentally founded for the sake of outside countries.
The good nuns went into the order to save their own souls and to find their true refuge from a very hostile world.
And as it played out, the world was so hostile.
was a Sicilian peasant here, believe me, the third daughter of a more penitent farmer,
where the only choice was the whorehouse or the convent,
after even the nunnery was vastly preferable.
And they went in for their own sick.
It was really because it was pleading to the Lord that they took care of the sick.
The sick, because they couldn't do a damn thing.
Wipe up their vomit, give them a tune, they'll be up very early.
That's one of them, do a thing.
And so they served because, what's the purpose?
As in anyone asked you, whatever is that?
The judge said the first one is the one to tune yourself.
So, when the hospital changed, as it did in the Central,
from the place where the poor went to die,
to the place where everybody went to get well,
that was the religious, where we come from.
The ethos of the hospital and the ethos of the order were on a political level, and they resisted it very quickly.
And some still do. Fortunately, the problem solved itself because there are no unknowns.
But they did not mean by doing that to any Catholic women.
And don't tell them anything about it, because they say, that's the job.
yet the registered nurse agreed and my husband was treated like a human being and paid accordingly.
But such organizations as existed in the past, which were very few, were essentially not focused.
They were focused on their own members, which means totally focused on results on the outside
And if it doesn't, it forgets the formality of the term of bureaucracy, of putting its own internal work into the head of its existence, and in my mind, the management has the dimension of performance, the person, or the institution exists only for that sake.
And that performance is totally different, totally different.
Quite a different institution.
And I'm going to let you know the term business is a meaningless term.
Are you here to find out the business of it?
Let me ask you.
Here we have a hospital here, not very far from here.
And it happens to be immediately cheap.
Let's assume it is, sooner or later.
And so the board of trustees gets together and says,
But we have an offer here from American Hospital Corporation to sell the hospital to them.
We can't enact it anymore.
And we can't get boards anymore because of my practices.
And we'll sell it to American Hospital Corporation.
Can you imagine this scenario?
And so what happens then to the hospital?
I can tell you one thing that I can tell you will happen.
The other thing you have to say.
One thing I can tell you, sir, is that the plaque at the door will be changed from Pomona
General Community Hospital to Pomona General Community Hospital in total elapsed cost about
25 bucks.
What else is there?
Yes, sir?
Move too much faster.
A lot of the private hospitals have exactly the same length of stay, the priority of the
same size.
Exactly.
They may bring in their own controller.
Maybe, maybe not.
Maybe they just transfer it.
But to a certain degree, the price may or may not accept the fact that everyone in this room, except for this, everyone in this room is on prepaid medical care where the price of any one service in any one institution is irrelevant to you.
The doctors still receive fee for service, but you don't pay fee for service.
Anybody needs it.
Everybody has some sort of health insurance, don't they?
You're all employed by somebody.
And therefore, there is no price for anything.
There is a cost of health care, which is borne basically by a tax system.
Nobody in this room here knows or cares how much an individual's illness
or what have you costs, because they don't pay it anyhow.
And here, your doctor orders 18 extra x-rays,
and you don't know whether he does it because he doesn't know
what's a phoenix surgery, or because you really have
to have 18 shots of his ribs, or because he's
a partner in an x-ray lab, or because he's covering
his flank against malpractice.
You don't know.
But you also couldn't care, do you?
There is no relationship between your health
The relationship is roughly, you know, I'm one of the very few people who like prunes.
If I have a second helping of prunes, I don't do it to support American agriculture.
But that is a relationship. And nobody in the Imperial Valley or wherever they grow prunes is going to give me a medal.
And if I tomorrow stop eating prunes, nobody in the Imperial Valley is going to lose a
night's sleep or a penny of income.
Their relationship is so remote.
That is the relationship of your experience with the health care system.
We have a totally free paid system for 96.5% to 95.5% of the population, which for about
for about 50% of the service members he said he accounted for you for silly so
when you look the actual income it is very clear that the fees are adjusted to
result in pre-setting numbers and totally free pieces of sufficient make
so much in the rain and then you didn't see what is related to is related to the
age of the obstetrician along his window and the size of the community you tell me how long dr jones
has been an obstetrician like this takes 10 years to get up to the feet and then the toes and then
after 55 it begins to go down and so uh and you tell me how large his community is and the income
range for dr. young I can look it up and that and even though this is not worked
out that we any system that works that we is in effect a prepaid system though
and you have no there's no price in that and you have no idea what it is and you
couldn't hear it or other you may get the bill paid and pass it on and get
reimbursed in four weeks if you are so to finance the system for four weeks
that's all and if it's a heavy video
so and this incidentally serene white you better not believe that you're going
to pass in any national history but they had no proof nobody in this one and
and nobody in the population.
Pure media, a pure media event.
That'll be used for it to get re-elected,
but that is the end of it.
After that, there's no pressure.
And far too complicated a system to think of
as political gender and any other.
The moment you try to do anything,
you find that you have forgotten 28 people,
each of whom can vote you out of office.
So let me say, the modern institution, then the performance is very different.
They must think what each of them have in common that they exist for the sake of a result on the outside.
Contact is management's job to get, not only management,
because management is a very, originally management had nothing to do with it.
In fact, the term management wasn't used in respect to business.
Anybody know when?
If you had said it a hundred years ago, you'd have talked of the management of the Erie Railroad, you know?
You know what term Frederick Taylor used in late 1911?
He said the director and the famous testimonial group of humblest scientific management,
which had nothing to do with what you think management is.
So that term, management, came out of World War I war effort.
Bernie Baruch, when Mr. President Wilson made him head of the War Production Board,
talked of the management of war production, of the war effort,
in a speech written for him by his close and dear friend, Louis Brandeis,
and just coined the term scientific management.
He almost talked about task study, which made much more sense.
And Brandeis sought his last sex appeal, as indeed he does,
And in order to stop them, to get in on the front page, he pointed scientific management
in their lawsuit against the Eastern Railroad.
And then the shippers, the freight charge, claimed that if the railroads were only properly
managed, they could calculate 60% study.
And so the Taylor Point task study said, my God, this you can't possibly say to a jury
or to a newspaper report.
You can't call it.
You can't manage it.
You can't do it.
And this is how management came to be used, because management before that was exclusively used in a public country.
The management of the public debt is the phrase Alexander Hamilton once had talked of the management of the First Bank of New York, which is on this.
We'll never have it. But the management of the public debt.
Calhoun, as Secretary of War in 1832, talked of the management of the U.S. Army.
Management had an exclusive public service company.
It was that part of the public service function that was not concerned with setting policies,
but with implementing. Now, implementation is...
Anybody know where that word came from?
Well, one of the few bad things Harry Truman did.
Implementation before Harry Truman was strictly St. Louis style and the city.
that looked a regional world, was not used by anybody.
No, you don't find it.
When he was president, he talked about it,
and there was damage and unfortunately it went on.
But that's what it meant.
In the public sector, the governments,
it was World War I that projected it into business.
The Harvard Business School is the school of business administration.
The Wharton School is the school of finance, money and banking.
So this was put into business after World War I and then became confined to business.
You know why? By deans eager to attract students to get higher salaries.
Business was where the money was. That's the main thing.
But we are now moving out of it.
It describes the function and the organ that is generating the modern situation.
Though the studies have been made very heavily on business,
not for which laboratory uses these little monkeys.
They are available and...
Pomona General Hospital is a hospital and one of the profit-making chains.
Does it make a business out of you?
They never gave me an answer.
Yes, ma'am.
I can't hear you.
Well, I thought...
Maybe they would, maybe they wouldn't.
That here who is a veteran of this is the pilot, the controller.
He was the controller.
He's the one they put in, I don't know.
Yeah, but that's because one of the reasons why they have to sell the hospital
is that they don't have a good company.
Anything change should happen to the medical staff?
No.
If you were a patient and they're having a gallbladder take out,
would it make any difference to you?
None.
Maybe they put in a new administrator, maybe they don't, you know.
Maybe it's the administrator that's been pushing this.
Maybe, on the other hand, if I'm the American Hospital Corporation,
maybe I buy Pomona because the administrator is so good,
and within a year I put him into a much bigger hospital of mine.
That's no different from any other merger, is it?
If this had been Pomona Hospital Incorporated
and been bought, the stock being bought by the American Hospital Corporation.
Would they do anything different? Is it a business or isn't it?
Let me say the differences are, I can't tell you.
One difference is that today I can make a charitable donation to Pomona
and deduct it from my taxes. If it's a profit-making hospital,
they have to set up a foundation to which I make a donation.
there might but that you can do just as well by having a chain of non-profit hospitals
yeah no difference is it a business or isn't how do you define a business anybody willing to
let me say one always in such a nasty question tries to go back you know you know the boy's
called rule what do you do when you lose your way in the woods what do you do what's the boy's
That's wonderful.
What's the Eagle Scout rule?
Go back to where you're new, where you were, and start over.
You have taken the wrong path and the rule is not to be right, I'm not going to let any
of you leave me on a mountain you are not to be trusted you are trying to be
right but he's never one is always intelligent the intelligent thing is to
go back to where you know there was a marker that said dream lake three miles
and you thought it pointed in that direction when you go back you find it
pointed in that goes back to where one knew where one was different let me see that kind of thing
where one deals with history one goes back to where the markers were clear uh if you had asked
that question in 1888 or if you had asked mr lenin that question he would have been able to answer
very clearly how would he have answered the business and he would not demand that we say
There was never any doubt that there are businesses that pay taxes and other businesses that don't.
It's a co-op.
It's a business nobody knows.
In no country in the world have co-ops been taxed for a long time.
So it's an ownership of the business.
Service.
That's what that means.
Service.
That's what that means.
The organization of individuals to perform a specified function.
I can't hear you.
The organization of individuals to perform a specified function.
And one person can't be a business?
No, why not? Now, Mr. Lenin would have agreed. Any Marxist would. And it's a very important distinction, Marxism, between personal possession and means of production.
Theoretically, at least. Look, in the papers the other day, just a few days ago, there was a story about a Greek citizen who had left all his...
now at age 90 leaving russia born in the 1880s some there was a grown man when the european king
and already a substantial art collector modern art and is now leaving the soviet union retiring
the breeze and they made a deal with the soviet government and he can take out one third of his
art collection on condition that he gives the russian two this is all art that was forbidden
in russia more than all and he was the only one who won and he was not expropriated of course
if he had been a russian citizen he probably might not have survived but probably he was
probably pretty close to the revolutionary in 1917 and this is perfectly good marxist
paintings are not means of production your personal property socially neutral
And if you own a six storey house and you and your children live in it
and nobody else, that's fine.
If you rent it out, that's another matter.
It becomes a means of production.
So from the point of view of this,
the difference is not ownership, but ownership of what?
A business is engaged in production.
Now, if it had been an art dealer, that would be another matter.
But an art collector, the fool who doesn't know better,
that's all it is.
And that is socially totally neutral.
It isn't that it's good that makes it a means of production.
It's that it can be used, it's being used to produce wealth
that makes it a means of production.
That's one definition of a business.
It's engaged in producing wealth.
What else?
The classical one, 1988.
They're not talking of today.
the other one is that it has employees uh you would say that that fellow on the
new york stock exchange in 1890 was trading for himself buying and selling
was in business but you would not call him politically business for that and this is
something well this and let me say this is not logic this is usage the language was quite clear
one listens to language language has a fine ear one listens to the way the language is very careful
and language was quite an envy and they did not own anything and profit was the cooperatives were
clearly a business so let me say the cooperatives were a great problem to early socialist doctors
and i don't know whether you realize that marx was dead set against cooperatives and so and one of
of the minor issues in the break between the Mensheviks, the majority socialists, and the
Bolsheviks, the minority socialists. One of the minor issues were the cooperatives, the
major issues that it produced. But the cooperatives Lenin did not accept as they were still a
capitalist business. Mensheviks were in favor of cooperatives, were at least not opposed
But the business was very clear, even though there was no profit in it, or rather the profit
accrued to either the producers or the consumers.
The main cooperatives of those days were the European type cooperatives, which are consumer
cooperatives.
You see, you hear very often that America is not a cooperative country.
This is a very old European comment or criticism, it just happens to be unproved.
America is the leading cooperative country.
Only our cooperatives are not consumer co-ops because we always had good retail trade, retail
distribution.
Consumer co-ops really never served any function and never could compete.
I don't think they still can.
In 20 years, there is a flurry of interest in consumer co-ops, and then Albertsons always
chases him out of business, because basically everyone thinks there's a better job and isn't
quite as political as any co-op becomes.
But this is a country of producer co-ops, whether it's Sunkist or the dairy farmers,
so all the...
And that is the American development.
Europe has almost no producer co-ops. The co-ops in Europe are consumer co-ops, or credit
co-ops. They'll be also very strong. This is a very narrow-minded and nearsighted European
view that kind of doesn't see the co-ops in this country because they are not on the model
of Lashley in 1837, the English consumer co-ops in the little West Country village.
But the co-ops were a business nobody ever doubted, though maybe they were a slightly different, but it was also very clear very soon that if you didn't run a co-op the way you ran the A&P or Albertson, it wouldn't last long.
that basically you have to run it exactly the same way,
structure determines strategy and not law.
So what's the business?
That was the definition.
Let me say actually there was something missing
in that definition because in those days it was so obvious
that nobody even saw it.
A business was the one institution
in which you could concentrate on your job
and not pay attention to anything else.
The dividing line was between businesses and institutions that had a political exposure.
A political exposure is one in which values include that are not related to the purpose of the city.
Now that can be a laudatory term, it can be a federative term.
We have quite a few people here from the Air Force bases around here,
And they all used to hear the generals say that we have to maintain the integrity of the military outside of politics.
Remember? How much do you know?
What they mean is that here is a military mission.
Anybody know how one defines a military mission?
Two definitions.
And one of the problems of the American military is that we never made up our minds.
And of course we can.
If you look at the Roman legion, in the terms of Caesar, who spent a great deal of time on defining the military, they were pretty good at it.
They defined the military. The mission of the Roman legion was to win the war.
If you read the great documents of Greek history, one of the perennial debates in Athens was whether the mission of the Athenian military forces was to win the war or to prevail.
The other definition is to prevent it by having the four same beings that gives the potential
vessel a little force.
Now the Romans, as long as they flourished, never had the slightest doubt.
It was only after the second century when Rome had exceeded probably the limit of what
it could manage politically, administratively.
that the legions were turned defensively and began to focus on preventing attacks by the barbarians,
which they never did, by the way, because the legion was totally unsuited.
The legion was a fighting instrument.
But the idea of a very different approach to the military
as a force that enables the citizens to live in peace because it prevents war.
And what had you in size, you wouldn't bring what we're sitting on.
It's a fighting instrument.
You spend far too much of your energy licking raw recruits into shape, and they don't stay here.
No sooner have they learned which end of the right place to business ends than they go back home.
They leave you alone, serving professional soldiers.
The only way you can have it, fighting.
And when we switched the conscription to a professional army,
Maybe we really opted for a different construction of the military, and that we didn't opt.
We did something that would make only sense if we had changed the definition, which means
a lot of the problems today.
So the military has these two missions, and what the generals say, let us concentrate
on those.
And all the other things, beginning with fair employment and the impact on citizens and
That can only impact. That's in terms of holistic innovation.
And up to a point where we have to take them into account,
only because otherwise we don't get the money we need.
But beyond that point, they become, you know,
detriment and burden and vehicle.
A business was always an organization that had no,
know or back even one generation he was crystal clear to everybody whether he was in business or
outside that all you expected of the people who ran see a robot i said they knew where to put
the store and they knew what they put into this and they knew how to price stuff in the store
and they got customers and satisfied them and treated to help with a body come up decency
I'm sure the individual businessman who then became a rich man was expected, depending on the context, to be a philanthropist or to be a community leader, but you, all of you, think that is a normal expectation. It's exceptional.
And nobody, in fact, ever expected their racism meant to become this.
There were the exceptions, there were the Jewish leaders with their vows of pro-religionists,
there were now-and-totally-in-my-feet-there-that-is-extreme destitution and poverty,
and who were from the Jewish Ethics, the Rothschilds, the Hershers, and so on,
against the Jewish community, what if the Jewish business leaders were to answer them?
You're right, it was one of the great campaigns that showed that they weren't French.
Quite obviously, were Jews first and Frenchmen afterwards if at all.
That was something for the state and for the nuns, except that the nuns took very little
interest in Romania.
You go next door, in Germany you had a tradition of the citizens, because these were merchants.
France had been abolished and destroyed as a kingdom.
But Frankfurt and Hamburg and Bremen were merchant citizens.
Merchants have a tradition of community leadership in the finance of people.
That's very largely where ours came from. It came from the merchants, from Amsterdam.
And in this country, a community leadership position. You expect that
successful businessman to be on
Martin Day's city of hopes board and raise money for it and to be
to be concerned it's a simple that's peculiarly american that you don't find any other community
affairs are not in any other country things that are done by the leading city they do they are not
an obligation of width an obligation of rank and height uh but uh very different so these are
strong culture in japan let me say none of this begins in japan it is very simple there are more
the more money you have, the more careful you are.
We have 700 years of rapacious tax collectors in Japanese history.
And everybody learns to pretend to be meager.
You know, there's a Polish proverb that says,
the people of substance are out to look meager.
That applies to the rich in Japan.
It was a great thing. I'm being inconspicuous.
Well, then it is one institution where you never put any, they never had to worry about non-performing theory.
And when it got to any other, you had constituencies that were not fundamentally concerned with the perform,
but with extra outside considerations, either looking to the institution to charge with other things.
In addition, you see, and anybody know what's the one institution that looks most like any other country?
The country that has looked for 250 years on the school as a social institution.
Every other country in the world has looked at it as a professional.
The PTA is an American, the first of the Harvard operatives, came from the other side, from political science,
and I was never and he said what the father I don't know but we have two of
the sons are in our practice what are you don't care what men's college and
the other idiot on the side and William Yancey I'll use for the great
political scientist and when it does we want to be a business city and the
I visited Bill, and we had a very pleasant chat.
That wasn't very meaningful.
And then I said to Bill, I said, I have a lunch date.
And he said, where?
And I said, it's the Harvard Business School.
And he said, I wish you wouldn't go until you have made
up your mind to say no to us.
And that, as a man, the management program
would only get them in Dutch.
They knew that with their people at the university proper.
They didn't want it. There were two beginnings, quite in the same time. One was MIT in 1932, and one was New York University, the same year.
Both were essentially for people who had no, the idea was that 99% of the business leaders of America at that time had no college background.
The same was true in government. The service commission didn't put the college degree in until World War II, is predicted.
Higher education disqualified you for honest work.
And if you went to humanity, alright you went to jail, not for the sake of learning anything.
Those days people had far more realistic expectations.
Ah, did you do that because your roommate would have an uncle,
be an executive vice president of a New York brokerage house,
and you get the job as a bond saver.
You went for the connections.
But by and large, education and institutions have very little.
In the last 30 days, 99% or 98% of our college graduates
will work as employees in organizations the rest of their lives.
And on the other hand, 99% of the people whom the organization hires for managerial and professional positions will have been victims or beneficiaries of long years of sitting on their rear end, total symbiosis.
Tammy's been connected at the buttocks.
So, the only measurable part of education is how long you sit there.
All the rest I know, ask Phil, he was about to take a qualifying exam, how measurable it is.
But Tati has been sitting here now for seven years, we know.
That is provable, the rest is not.
So, here the institutions have grown up and as a result they've become important.
Believe me, your great-grandfather, or even grandfather, the performance of institutions was of practically no concern, unless the few who were concerned.
The life expectancy in 1905 was not met with the regard of the medicals you got.
I don't know how many of you heard of Dr. Osler's famous statement of 1970,
that by now medicine has reached the point where when you go to a doctor,
you have a 50-50 chance of not being harmed.
You all think that it was medical medicine.
It was meant as an encomio.
And I still remember the first time I heard it, was maybe ten years later, from my uncle
who I had trained and the doctor.
The first man in the world, he was an electrocardiogram, great doctor.
And I was in it.
He said, he was home with an optimist.
And that came down to one that's proud of his existence.
And you look at the life expectancy, the wealthy could afford an ox or the rich.
It began in World War I and really began to engulf us for better or worse in World War after World War.
And today we live in a society of organizations that has two consequences.
One consequence is that management suddenly matters.
You know, when the Harvard Business School opened its portals,
how many of you have already heard the story of Uncle Henry?
Nobody here?
Uncle Henry, this is Kauffman's department's story.
Uncle Henry and his twin brother arrived in the United States in 1867
in a little provincial German town and had between themselves one shirt, so the story goes.
They arrived in the summer and before they were off the boat they traded in the shirt against the wheelbarrow and were in business.
The long saga.
And Uncle Henry's twin brother died, and 15 years later, Uncle Henry prospered enough to open the first department store,
still a small store, in what was then the beginning Midwestern place, named Fitzgerald.
Kaufman is still the lead department.
And 20 years later, he could build what was the biggest department store in town.
It still is, but it's already edited.
And another 10 years later, the Harvard Business School opened its doors,
And Uncle Henry sent his son, Esker, to the Harvested Institute, and Esker came back and was absolutely appalled at the total lack of system and management and order and what have you, complained bitterly. He said, Father, you don't even know how much profit you're making.
And Dr. Henry said, come along, me boy, and went up to the 12th floor, the furniture floor, and walked around. He didn't say a word. And he was a little kind of a kid.
that the clerks and the customs went down to the 11th floor and the 10th, and the 9th, and the main floor, and the basement, and the sub-basement, and the sub-sub-basement, and the sub-sub-sub-basement,
he owned in the bedrock, and there on the rock ledge was a boat of glass, and I planned to point it to him and said,
take away their vest, you want to know what proper you're reading, that's what I started with, their vest is proper.
Story one tells graduate students once in a while, lest they become infatuated with models.
And that was the world. And sure, brother, Sanetka had a point, but the old man had one too.
And suddenly, but there was no internal weaponry, and no SEC.
And when Kaufman was listed on the New York Stock Exchange,
Nobody expected a K-10 or a K-2 report or whatever it is.
What is it? K-2 is a dog, isn't it?
Most of them are, but K-10, you know.
Nobody.
And then the investors, we are no less protected then than they are now,
because in those days, investors knew that they better look out for themselves.
You know, when crisis easily grows this year or today.
And so, suddenly we live in a world of levitation.
Not because it's different. I'm going to shock you.
If you had gone into Uncle Henry's store in 1903,
it wouldn't have been very different from what you're trying to do.
In fact, the old gentleman was ahead of most of us.
He was, for one, the American retail business was swept by a wave of employee filth.
And every other store bought in the Pinkertons and one-way mirrors and what have you.
and what have you. I was telling you the story of the way Uncle Henry told it.
And Uncle Henry said, you know the Turks were howling mad and that was a thing too.
And we just looked and said, now what's the normal shrinkage? There is one, maybe
quite honestly. Then we gave an incentive to him. At the
semi-annual inventory, the shrinkage was nowhere
in the normal one. He came to me in that department.
The department that they were in. And he could pick up X percent of
salary as pre-merchandise in the store, and white percent at a 20% discount.
The normal shrinkage is that it disappears.
I know this is so far ahead of most modern man.
Or he also is a man who invented how one handles complaints.
He also is a man who invented satisfaction guaranteed and your money back,
as I once said to him.
Henry, if a woman wore a dress and washed it,
he wanted it back in return.
What did he do? He gave her the money back.
How else can she find out whether she likes the dress?
He said, then what if she comes back a second time?
Oh no, the first time you put her name on the list.
Otherwise it's habit war.
This is something Bullock is now learning.
He knew that in 1885,
he also knew how to handle money.
Anybody that came in with a complaint, whether it was a girl or a fellow with a complaint,
for me, they said, I have to file a vice president complaint.
Such a good customer as you.
Their nearest male employee over 35 answered the complaint that it was a vice president complaint.
And he listened to the complaint and tore his head out and said, this isn't the way we treat customers at Kaufmann's.
Get me the guilty clerk.
first court outside pointed him and said you are fired. By that time the woman would of course plead for it. Then she would leave mollified. Then they would never take a complaint. They're good managers.
most of them read them in their books.
But they looked and listened and watched.
Only trouble is, you know, that Henry was there
running what was a big department store for his days,
alone, basically.
How many stores does he use now?
He said that in any area,
the man, the natural.
He was there in 1906.
He was there about 1906.
Columbia University.
Nicholas Murray Butler, the last of the greats.
And then as he went into the learning profession,
he spent four nights a year
working every time. That's it. And now it matters. And so you can't just see the fact that you're going to do something.
You need to believe in 1906, but it sure makes no sense anymore. There are more faculties to believe. That's why they are in trouble.
Performance is a pressure. And so all of them become more like this. And at the same time, you can't have a large business anymore
And see, our business is making nuts and bolts.
That's all we are concerned with, social responsibilities,
environmental ones.
All these are no longer restrained.
These are now part of the fabric.
So you have certain constituencies,
from the woman's liver to the Sierra Club,
which is one of the things businessmen cannot cope with.
It's so totally alien.
They're quite right, it interferes with making nuts and bolts and it greatly raises the cost of nuts and bolts.
And incidentally, the dean, when doing it, he said,
