Please, for those of you who tell me to pass them out,
for those of you who don't have them,
and I ask you to look at it and tell me two things.
Let's begin with, which cases do you want to do for your case?
Let's eliminate that.
It's always easier.
Then we say, which case are we going to start with?
Which case?
Anybody got a strong preference for doing a case?
Yes, sir.
Manco number one.
You mean it's a written case?
Yes.
Yes, Banco No. 1.
Banco Mercantil?
Yes.
No. 2.
No. 1.
No. 1, yes.
Good.
Who else wants to do Banco Mercantil, No. 1?
Discussing questions.
To do inviting.
Let's eliminate the ones we can't discuss.
Who wants to do Banco Mercantil, No. 1?
One, two, three.
All right.
That we put on the request list.
We find that, but I think we can probably,
it's kind of a waiting list.
Saturday morning on the flight to San Francisco your reason to be sure you get
on so who wants to do what else yes sir state promote who wants to do
paid promotion well that's all right paid promotion we will not discuss in
class which is a pity because it's a nice paper we can't service what else
anybody wants. Sloan, fine, good, Sloan, okay. What? How to manage subordinates. Let me
say how to manage subordinates is probably the best case to do because it's a
forced choice case. A forced choice case. You are being told to finish a sentence
in English, please, and not in German. So the sentence runs to a
a couple of lines, not the 984-page book with all the footnotes first, you know, a good
German scholar's book in which all the footnotes come first, and then he decides what the book
is all about.
And so it's forced choice, and you have to make up your mind, and then you have to argue
for it.
and that is fear that is not that forces you to to think and you can't say on the one hand on
the other hand and on the third hand this is not the case in economics and so uh you have to say
the most important thing or the o is a b c and not say but other things are also important
what comes first and then you have to argue for and it is quite clear that there is no right
One right answer on this, you see, if it's a genuine decision, there is never a right answer because a genuine decision is always under conditions of uncertainty and always has a heavy opportunity cost of eliminating other things. And therefore, it's always risky. But at least you have a chance because at least you concentrate your resources. And if it isn't too badly wrong, you'll have results.
So how to manage subordinates is a good case to write on.
Has anybody got a piece of paper to write on?
No.
I need a piece.
Just put down the cases.
We are not going to discuss them.
I'm a reformed character.
I used to have one of those 984-pound briefcases, you know?
And then I decided that with two tennis elbows,
maybe I'd not carry things.
And now I've over-eliminated it, you see.
I'd have to probably, but I always had a plan.
So Bank of America, we have so far subordinates, Sloan, and Promotion.
One or two more.
What?
University Art Museum.
No, that I will not allow you to do.
I don't want you to hang yourself.
This is a very important case, but I damn the difficulty.
Oh, God.
You will find out.
That we better discuss because this is the case in how one really thinks through what this is all about.
And that is very deceptively simple.
And the good dean tackles it as a simple case.
And I can guarantee you that the good dean is going to become a prophet.
But that is the fate of deans anyhow.
And what are the results?
It's also a good case for class discussion, but it's more likely to be a case.
But don't tackle the opposition.
Yes, sir?
What is this case?
Alisha State.
Oh, you mean Alisha.
Yes, I think that's a nice case to do in a case
to do the Alisha State College case.
Because again, it is quite clear that you should close down both.
But you can't.
You have a restraint, and you have to make a choice.
And therefore, you are forced to come down off the fence.
And that's always, because that forces, let me say, that forces you to listen to the rumblings in your stomach.
That's how one makes such decisions, really.
They are not made rationally by a preponderance of disagreeableness.
And they're really made, not emotionally, is the wrong word, by feeling.
And then one has to think it through and argue.
But you don't make decisions like that because you can't, really.
You have to think through, and they are not decisions for the greater good, but for the
lesser evil, which is what is typical of decisions, as many of you have found out, haven't you?
Very rarely is the greater good very clear.
The lesser evil is occasionally, you see, and you have to take a risk, and you have
to make a decision and live with the consequences, including a hell of a lot of headlines in
the local people.
Obviously, whichever way you jump, you're going to hit the headline.
So the smart thing is to forget the public relations aspect.
You're going to be equally unpopular with different people.
So you can't do it for popularity.
You have got to do it, but what's unbalanced is the lesser evil.
That's a good case. All right, let's stick to those four.
Five.
And we said Bank of America until, did anybody want Bank of America until 1?
Number 1, good.
All right, let's give you that.
We have five cases to choose from out of four, nine.
Now, we are unlikely to run out of discussion material before the cases.
I want to support that.
But in case we do, I reserve the right to discuss Bank of America until number one at
the very end.
I think it's unlikely.
So that the Bank of America until number one people, I think would be intelligent for them
to do it soon and not wait to the end.
And let me say this is also a dividend because that's really the way one tackles the case,
only we don't have the time to do it.
The way to do it is for you to work on it,
and then we discuss it in class.
And then one really learns the most.
And so if we can do that with Bank of America until number
one, the people who have picked it, the three or four,
may get a great deal more out of it.
Otherwise, there's no feedback for the rest of you.
You hand in the case and get the grade, but so what?
We give you a grade for one and only one reason,
Because otherwise, you don't get tuition income.
That's the only reason.
Otherwise, it makes no sense to have
grades in the class, I guess.
It's plain silly to say that here.
But if one can accommodate the stupidity of the world
with so little cost and effort as to give you a grade,
one doesn't argue.
One reserves one's strength for stupidity one can't buy off.
This we know how to buy off people, and it's not on you.
Anybody know whom you have to thank for this particular piece
of stability?
The Comptroller of the Army in 1946,
who insisted that he could not testify tuition refund
to officers unless he had a voucher with a grade on it.
And he knew the Congressional Committee after all,
and so nobody argued with him.
And it turned out right, because when he then
appeared before the congressional committee,
I don't know which one it was, it was Armin.
And he said the congressman went into the expected big speech
about wasting taxpayer money so that officers learn something
which they don't need.
The comptroller said, but they get their degree.
And the congressman was all smiled.
But otherwise, you wouldn't do it.
What case do you want to start with today?
Anybody got any questions on the cases, or on the outline,
or anything?
Well, I don't think we have, certainly,
we have what are results on our agenda for class discussion.
Again, let me say this is very difficult.
And I don't want you to tackle difficult cases,
because I don't want you to do a superficial job.
And to do this and really look at it and get the most out of it
would take us probably two class sessions.
Difficult is the wrong word.
It's a very ambivalent case.
There are so many levels to it.
Yes, sir?
Can we start with the university problem?
You want to start with the university art museum?
Anybody else?
Yes, I'd like to.
Well, wait.
But before we do it, does anybody
have any questions here on the program, on the procedure?
OK.
We've got an hour before we adjourn.
Where do you start with the university art museum?
What is the case that we see?
don't ever do what the good dean did and try to rush into answers.
He's taking the graduate record exam and rushes into questions.
And what is this all about, sir, yet?
Wouldn't you?
Yeah, I don't think we can hear you in the back there.
Possibly defining the problem, first of all.
Well, precisely, what is the problem?
In terms of maybe analyzing what was successful
versus the problem, and possibly finding something there
that might .
You know, before you do this, let me ask you a question.
If you were to classify this kind of situation,
could you classify when can you expect this kind of problem
to arrive in organizations?
When there's no direction.
The man had no direction, so he wasn't given it.
He just came in.
Well, now you're already giving answers.
You know, this is a very typical case of the founder,
of the builder.
Here is that good lady, what did I call her?
Miss McKittrick or whatever it was.
Kirchhoff.
Kirchhoff.
What?
Kirchhoff.
Miss Kirchhoff, yes.
And she took over a baby orphan, indeterminate sex,
but clearly a fueling infant, which would probably have died
she hadn't taken it omnibus nobody was terribly interested with the gentleman who had given it to
the university bought himself a very pleasant sinecure where he could put it to his heart's
content and think deep thoughts but universities are remarkably good at getting out of covenants
and so around 1935 without miss kirchoff somebody said but we need really a place for the biology
department or we got the grant in oceanography and they would somehow have found a way of getting
the rock museum ah it didn't have much maybe the deeds under which he gave these collections
museum couldn't be broken so that the university couldn't sell them. You'd be surprised how good
university councils are at finding loopholes in these. And the university wasn't a big
interest. In fact, a young woman took over and if anybody had an interest in it, she wouldn't
have been able to. The university allowed a 24-year-old graduate student to move in and do
something if anybody show has any interest in so nobody gave a who she
took over and she didn't need a salary he's the first and then ten years is
seven years later the university's public relations office read in the
local paper a rave note is about the exhibition and everybody patted himself
for herself on the back and took full credit and it was popular but and see
nobody interfered with her as long as she had gotten adverse publicity, yes, but she didn't.
On the contrary, she got the art department faculty on her side by giving them good office space and
she ran it. Very typical museum story. This is incidentally how most of the world's big museums
got started, one way or another. And as long as she was there, nobody, there was no problem
of organizational structure because she didn't report to anybody or she was carried someplace
on a budget and she didn't cost a penny except maybe for share of the university to the insurance
and it may surprise you but art museums are cheap because uh the danger of theft on an artist is
infinitely less of a risk than the danger of a janitor spawning and filing a workman's
compensation claim or a student so this is the total budget insurance budget of
universities was nothing fine arts a fine arts code is served with an extra
premium of maybe in those good days one hundredth of one percent especially as
he had none of the things that thieves go for you know no great name
impressionist, no Rembrandt. Who is going to take away Tibetan Buddhist
paintings? What do you do with them? The market is very limited. And so she didn't
cost anything. Nobody cared. And she built a very sizable institution. The way she
wanted it. I'm not saying she wasn't autocrat. All you know, she concerted
high wide and handsome, museum people, with all faculty people. She had a strong, she may even have a
student advisory council, but it was her council. And here she is gone. She said in the year, Frank said,
you don't know what this is all about. This is a very typical founder story, whether it's in their
business any kind of we have one of our members here works for one of the very well-known and
distinguished hospitals and the other day when we walked around he told me about
very big place very famous place is being run by the person not the medical man and businessman
who have the idea to running it, but I think policy is very important.
But you know, when he goes, and he will go,
so far immortality is not yet given to any of us,
and suddenly that takes me to the United States of America.
It doesn't know where it belongs, because it's not an institution,
it's the image of a prison, and one cannot perpetuate the image of a prison.
One has to build an institution that is impersonal.
And then you have exactly this kind of problem.
And the first one you bring in is always a disaster,
simply because you're either looking for a carbon copy.
The worst you can do, what's the worst you can do? Do you know?
What?
Private imitation.
No, that's something much worse.
What? Oh, that's the smartest thing you can do.
Five years, and you're good. Oh, no.
Which large American company has been, over the last 30 years,
the worst managed company?
Was it a company that, I know there are lots of contenders
for that, but the one that gets itself almost into trouble
when it seems to be doing so very well, do you know?
ITT?
Oh, no.
Zero.
No.
No.
American Motors is very well managed.
It's just the wrong size.
Lockheed?
Lockheed?
No.
AT&T?
It is beautifully managed.
A and B?
Zeros?
No.
A and B is different.
Chrysler.
Chrysler.
Chrysler.
No, no.
Chrysler.
Chrysler is...
But the Chrysler will make it through the end of the century, I doubt.
And the main reason is that Walter P. Chrysler died either ten years too soon or ten years
too late.
He died in 1938 when it was still very much his company.
He was in the process of building professional management.
But with him around, he couldn't function.
Very powerful man.
I never knew him.
Very much influenced by his only close friend, Alfred Sloan.
It was Sloan who persuaded Kaiser to leave General Motors and start his own company.
And so he was trying to build professional management, but he had just begun.
Then he died quite young.
He was barely 45, I think.
maybe 50. And then for 15 years, Chrysler was managed. And I'm not Chrysler's closest friend.
Chrysler was his lawyer, Nick Kelly, son of Florence Kelly. The name may mean something to
the mother of social work in this country. A brilliant lawyer. I don't know how many of you
remember your high school textbook with the picture of the mountain links. Do you remember?
the tufted hair, but that's exactly the way the triangle of the face and hair coming out of the ears.
Very true. But El Hoya, who was an ardent spiritualist, as his mother had been,
and whenever there was a decision to replace the chitra,
Nick Calais would call in the medium and would go into a seance and wrap tables
and come back and say, this is what Walter P. would have done.
Now, I'm not belittling the left-wing people, not in the least, but more the people at that time were not that interested.
They were really studying the problem, invariably.
That is their work, and it is more frequent, though, in that overt form, it's very infrequent.
But in the un-overt form, where they say, what would the dear departed have done?
then there's somebody around who was close to him and knew his mind and can
speak for him. That's very common. And that's the worst kind. The second worst kind is
imitation because, as you see, carbon copies are weak. And the third one is to go for a
change of pace, any change of pace, as long as it's a change of pace. Let's do
something new, you know, without thinking why. Then you get that fellow you had here.
who probably looked about as different from the latent lady like Miss Kirchhoff as you could possibly find.
She still belonged to that generation where ladies didn't mention that women have legs, not quite, but almost.
And he probably used only four letter words even when others were available.
And so you try to have a radical to go with it.
That's the third mistake.
But it is not the most serious one, believe me.
There won't be.
It's very common.
Because the founder, either everybody cheats at the Betty's Outlet or her usefulness.
You know, we should have died 10 years ago.
And so everybody wants something drastically different.
And what's important is that it's different, not that it's right.
Or you imitate.
And imitation doesn't work.
The one thing that doesn't work is imitation.
We should have tried 10 years ago.
And so everybody wants something drastically different.
And what's important is that it's different,
not that it's right.
Or you imitate.
And imitation doesn't work.
The one thing that doesn't work is imitation.
Not true.
Anybody know how one defines creativity on Madison Avenue?
Being able to imitate faster than the other agents.
Now, that kind of imitation sometimes works.
Other than that, you get the Hollywood type, you know?
Here is one studio that shoved in the money
by bringing our drawers, and everybody else
is bringing out the movie and some other parts
of the animal anatomy.
And then they wonder why they don't throw out the box office.
Claws, feet, toes, everything.
And, you know, your only creative contribution is that where that fellow has one shot, you have three.
And that doesn't work.
Bandwagon. When the bandwagon goes, it's already overcrowded.
It says, what? Then one takes a wheelbarrow and goes in the opposite direction.
uh so that is a very common situation that the university setting adds some local color to it
but not much more and that uh it's part of the problem of the whole university having
doubts about where it belongs but fundamentally this is a common and what is it all about
How does a dean define it?
Not because he listens to what deans are apt to do,
and I was one for many years, and I know how deans behave.
I behaved that way, too.
I think deans have very little choice in behavior.
Then you listen to the last speaker in the faculty,
which is the way deans usually behave.
First people want to speak last are usually more worth
listening to than the ones who speak first.
And secondly, because they're usually easier to talk to,
to pay attention to, in fact, if you wait for them.
They speak last, not because they waited,
but because after them, nobody speaks.
The heavyweights had spoken, not in tight, low rank, but in.
And also because it was the one thing everybody remembered.
So the last speaker reported about his friend
in the museum, the director had told him during the summer.
And that's what they need.
And that's the definition of the problem.
So the dean defines it.
How does he define it?
Let me see the problem.
Let me say, one never, in a genuine decision,
accepts one definition of it.
Most have locked you in.
Once you have defined the problem,
you don't have much than the present of your definition.
One doesn't give answers until one has settled on a definition.
But one doesn't set out the A definition.
and start out with alternatives, if only to a limit,
if only to say this is a possible definition.
But A, it's not very likely.
B, if it's very likely, it doesn't help me any.
There's not a damn thing I can do about it on this approach.
And C, it's there for nobody really to understand
what we are doing.
And it opens too many other things.
Instead of solidity, yeah, it's solid, yes,
answers these specs, but it creates 5,500 problems I don't want it to.
Oh, Pandora's box, and many other reasons why you eliminate the definition,
including that the first time you formulated it, it sounded awfully bright.
The more you look at it, the dumber it looks.
Which all of you have been through, haven't you?
Those terribly bright insights,
lots of our insights of the character you know there's brilliant things that come to us in our
dreams and you wake up at three in the morning and have a pad in the pencil ready until you
read them next morning and you know a lot of the brilliant insight cannot stand the light of day
and so that made me laugh but once once in christmas and so how does the dean design the
problem in the last in the statement of the faculty well my understanding and
you hear the gentleman good yes that the way I was reading it that the Dean
didn't actually define the problem I didn't define for him he had it defined
for him it seemed how that it was a management problem what does that mean I
don't know I in this particular case he was talking about no direction or that
that aspect of lack of objectives and a list of other things encompassing a management
problem versus a personality problem.
But I didn't get anything in terms of agreement from the dean that this was his definition.
He seemed to be content to hire the new guy and let him worry about it or present these
questions.
Well, it's not that way.
Yeah.
Well, this definition is essentially, the dean says we have to think through the objectives
of the museum within the university.
Now, whether the questions he then
asked to get some objectives are the right ones,
we'll get to that.
But the dean says we need direction, the objectives,
structure, follow strategy, to repeat
an old slogan of management.
And people follow strategy, which is good.
But certainly this is one possible definition of the problem in which you say,
first we have to think through, we have this museum, it's a reality.
We don't face the decision whether to go into a museum.
We have gotten one, and it's very successful.
And so it's not the decision whether we should go into a university or a museum or not.
We are in it, and it's successful.
We don't have a problem of failure on our hands.
It's a very different problem.
Then you would ask what should be staying in it.
And what's the objective within...
What is a university, you know?
You're willing to define a university?
An American university today?
Anybody?
Decisional conglomerate.
Why educational?
Conglomerate, yes.
Education is already your conglomerate.
it, I think that's clear. Educational, unless you consider this purely a term of the tax
laws, which it probably is, all you are really saying is that donations to it are tax exempt.
And on the other hand, you then say that if that institution goes and buys you a spaghetti,
as one of the big ones did, incidentally, they own it when a spaghetti company and lose
money was the university. Nobody else has ever been able to do it.
It must have been their business department.
No, no. They would have liquidated it. No, they wouldn't have known what to do with it either. No, no.
The personnel department is looking at spaghetti making, and nobody has ever lost any money.
And spaghetti companies are run by illiterate Sicilians who can't write their name,
So we clearly can do better, place every misfit who had tenure into the management of EULA's
spaghetti.
That's just normal personnel policy.
And but they had internal revenue service, they did not allow them, and they considered
non-profit and said this is a business.
Not there, the educational became an operational term, this is not educational, but within
though the norm is a limitation, it's not a very clear thing.
It's a conglomerate.
And by itself, it has no clear objective.
And maybe you couldn't work well for the university today.
You know, there are transition times.
And if you went to the TAT poll and asked the TAT poll
to define what it's going to be in six weeks,
it wouldn't answer it wrong.
It doesn't know.
You know, and I know, because we've seen enough TAT polls.
And you'll only, in retrospect, see
that that hatball was shaped and structured to become a toe.
When you don't know, the process is a major change.
It's very hard to know from inside, particularly,
what the dynamics are, and the organics,
the phylogenetics in biologically, very hard.
And maybe you have that in the university today,
because it's clearly in a period of the American University
as we know it, was founded in the second half
of the 19th century.
And by the end of World War II, it
had achieved all its objectives and was a very great success.
And you know, that's a very dangerous position.
Nothing worse than to have attained your objective.
You always keep on doing more of the same,
even though it can't get you anywhere.
But also, if you're in a period of time, maybe you're in that period where they don't know.
Very hard to define.
And also, in fact, somewhat dangerous, because you may do it prematurely.
And stop the taskful halfway, you know, when it's neither a taskful nor a successful one.
But it's clear that the 19th century university, which every academician still sees in his mind's eye,
and has attained all its objectives and either developed into something else or will become
sterile very fast, do not remain alive very long if they have attained all their objectives
and don't learn any different things.
They become bored very fast.
That happened to the predecessor of the 18th century college, which was not an importation
importation from other distinctly American inventions. They're very interesting.
Had attained all its objectives around 1825 and then began to decline. In 1860,
enrollment in the American colleges, the country had doubled from 1820 to 1860
in population and almost tripled in gross national product. And the enrollment in the American
colleges went down by 60%. Just barely once there were as many college students in 1860 America
before the Civil War as there had been in 1825. The place was dying, if not dead, moribund. And,
you know, then one could begin again. For 30 years it was decaying, but had attained great success.
so it was defending yesterday may well be necessary uh they don't all come back
this great heroic generation to do it 30 years so uh uh maybe you can't find in the museum
our elder statement of the faculty report you have to their objectives are objective
things what are you trying to do what is the mission of the place what role does it play
within and without the university that's one way finding what the problem is let's not discuss it
yet let's put down other possible ways including impossible let me see when one puts down
possibility one doesn't try to assess their probability that comes late one puts down
possibility one puts down the things this might be including the things it really couldn't be
was in a diagnostic process all right, you know, if somebody's leg stands at a 90 degree angle
you are not going to put down brain tumor as a possible diagnosis, but short of it. But on the
other hand, with those blinding headaches, the fellow reports, you might very well have a problem
in the leg, the surface of the problem in the leg. It's not the most likely thing, but it's not an
you know, particularly without a lesson, and you are not ruling it out. You rule out the brain
tumor, it will extend to the 90 degree angle. But the other way around, you don't, it's not the most
likely for there to be a headache. I don't know what probability there is, it's more than a few percentage
points. So you put it down as a possibility. And then other symptoms shoot in, cluster, and suddenly
that remote probability becomes your leading candidate.
So one doesn't try to be intelligent.
One tries to be perceptive about the possibility.
So what other possibilities can you
see as possible coming to grips with this Grease Pig approaches?
The case is written so that it tells you.
Let me read you a statement.
And will you please read a case?
Yes, sir.
I can't hear you.
That's an answer. That's an answer. You're not interested. That's an answer.
I mean, but it's about as rational an answer as to take a gun and shoot your wife dead because the toast was weird.
Sure, that solves the toast. The problem is, you know, who's going to do the toast tomorrow?
It wasn't any good anyway.
So, no, these guys don't give answers at all.
Learn not to give answers.
Intelligent people don't give answers to anything
that exceeds, goes beyond the six times table.
The multiplication table up to nine times nine
is the only thing on which first you ask the right answers
and B, most of us know it.
Eight times 11, you're already going,
half of you are going to give me a wrong answer. I know that. Yes, sir. I can't hear you. It's here.
Now, if you were to say let's over-insure it and then burn it down, yeah, but that's already an
answer. Yeah. But that's also perhaps too drastic a way of tackling the problem of success. The
problem of success. Here is our friend from the mathematics department, and you can always count
In every faculty, your mathematicians are the purists.
You always have an economist who is a populist.
You always have a mathematician who is a purist, who believes that the world really consists
of postulates and logic.
And you always, and that's the worst depiction, however, is the distinguished member of the
literature faculty who knows the rule book and always points out that in section 762b
it says four carbon copies and we have five here, so we have to refer it back to the committee.
They always have one. It's always the literature department. And whether they place themselves
because of their temperament or whether they have those temperaments because of where they
I don't know, but you can come to me.
Here's the chairman of the mathematics department who says,
the museum, as far as I know, is part of the graduate faculty.
That is self-evident.
Why not?
It's being used by many.
No, that's not being used, sir.
No, it appears that some are long-haired.
There are a lot.
They're animated.
Well, it's a museum, but so is the history department.
I mean, it's a shorthand for the people, but this is...
But it's a possibility, and that's what you asked for.
What? What's a possibility?
Well, the fact that he may be people.
...a tendency to go into advancements of physics.
You know, one very possible definition of this
is that this is an organization problem.
There's nothing wrong with this museum.
You don't have to worry about its mission. It's just misplaced in the structure.
And why is it that the appointment of the director of the museum gets into the graduate senate?
Why does it get to the dean? It's not a teaching.
It's not a teaching. It's true. It's an adjunct to it. It's being used and very effective.
But in the first place, there is not something to lower it down.
Lots of university museums, nothing to do with teaching,
there are cultural facilities anymore.
We run a pretty big concert program here, you know,
a concert practically every night here.
It's educational, no doubt about it.
And yet, I don't think that our concert manager, whoever manages it,
maybe there's a faculty advisory committee which meets once a year probably for sherry and lunch
and the only is there in case things go very badly wrong these are safety nets these committees go
very badly wrong you have somebody who knows a little bit you can move into action other than
that they say very little oh what's that concept program of ours as a manager and there is your
football coach not here but there are some places where they have them and you know very important
part of what usc is doing do you really think that coach reports to the graduate faculty
he probably has tenure in person as part of his contract maybe yes and uh what simply means that
you can't just if you fire him you have to give him severance pay that's what you need uh i'm up
he reports to a director of athletic affairs and then in turn reports to the vice president for
not for academic affairs you should there's a faculty committee there only because in any
well-conducted university there's a faculty committee on everything but the undergraduate
And yet that athletic program would be strongly defended as part of the educational program.
And the kids considered it such, and the alumni sure do.
And all right, there is the Saturday massacre on the football field.
But there are lots of other things going on that are not track and tennis and what have you.
It's not a bad idea, you know, for 19-year-olds not to spend all their time over books, but
once in a while find out that they have muscles, especially as, at the age, your muscles are
the best developed part anyhow.
And so you might as well use them.
Muscles begin to go down from there on.
That's a peak.
So no, nobody believe me, if you go into that history, you cannot find any decision that
structured it. And they tilted Miss Kirchhoff. She had no problem. She didn't need anything from
anybody. She needed no need of money nor staff. And she worked with the art historians, who indeed
are part of the faculty. And it drifted in there. And so when she died or retired, nobody said,
now where how do we make this maybe that academic vice president the big university so it suffers
from too many layers of administration that academic vice president said to the dean george
about the museum director's job and towards it we'll handle it that's alone and
And all the art history people came in to the dean and said,
we have a very good candidate.
And he said, hooray, fine, I don't have to worry.
But nobody gave any thought to it.
And all you may have is that this
is a perfectly well-functioning kidney, which, however,
is in the chest cavity.
And your problem is not with the kidney, but you misplaced.
And you have an organization problem.
Nobody has thought about it.
may be totally outside of the academic structure.
There are third, fourth, are there other possibilities?
Or what kind of problems is it?
Mind you, these are important,
because if you tackle a problem
that is a structural problem,
and the problem of mission,
you're unlikely to come up with something that'll work,
because you still have relationships that can't work.
You still have built-in friction and malfunction.
On the other hand, if you handle a mission problem,
You can move boxes around, you know, that's easy on an organization charge.
That's what the military do in peacetime when they have no enemy to beat, you know, that's
how they keep themselves busy.
It's easy to do, but it doesn't solve it, because it still doesn't perform any function.
Yes?
How about a publisher of art textbooks or something, a business?
It's a museum.
Maybe it wants to do something else.
Well, all right.
with being a museum.
What the museum then does is a question of the museum.
What kind of a process is not the definition of the problem.
You're saying that this is a possible answer to the mission question.
It was also defined as a teaching institution.
No, it's not defined as anything.
Well, somebody defined it as a teaching institution.
No, nobody defined it.
One of the Senate people from the Art History faculty.
Yes, the mathematics people say it's part of the graduate faculty.
