I don't know what I want to say.
But the market depends on how you define the mission.
Now, wait a minute.
If you say we have a problem of mission, one of the ways to come to grips with the mission
is through the market.
But if you have an organization problem, the market would not interfere.
You say this is a mission problem.
That's quite possible, but don't immediately jump in because you think that's what it is.
With whole opinions, do you see the range of alternatives?
No, they may not be.
That depends on how you define the problem.
They may be perfectly, perfectly adjusted to the environment.
You don't know?
For an organization problem, you wouldn't dream of defining the environment.
You define relationship, you look at relationship.
If your mission problem, how one defines the mission objective problem,
yes, there's one approach, but by no means either necessarily the only one,
and by no means necessarily the first one.
It's the market approach.
What somebody else here said of what our strengths may come first,
And you might have three ways on the mission and the objectives of it.
The environment is only one.
And so it's usually the first one because it's usually the easiest.
But for market, do we mean we would have to define this as an institution?
That is market-related.
Not all of them.
I know that the courts of justice are not market-related.
Absolutely asinine to try to define a judicial system in terms of mocks.
It's a normative system. It stands for values that are outside of demand.
It tries to impose values on a by no means particularly receptive environment.
And the fact that the number of manufacturers doesn't go down is no test of its effectiveness,
effectiveness, because in any normative system, lack of success is proof of the need of the
institution.
What I'm saying is the fact that the preacher every Sunday thunders or used to thunder against
adultery without making the slightest discernible impact, a hundred thousand years, is no proof
of anything except the wickedness of the world.
It is not true, the futility of morality, because the preacher is normative and not
market-focused at all on the country.
The fact that the centennials flourish like the Green Bay tree is what keeps him alive.
God help the preacher, pure reform.
Fortunately, the danger is so remote, so it isn't true.
This has to be an institution, the purpose, the function of it, is to satisfy a market
demand, whatever you may mean by that, and we don't know that yet.
So one possible alternative definition, do you see now why I didn't want you to take
this as a case to do at home?
I know you said so.
It's coming clear.
Yeah.
And one possible, possible, and please learn to suppress being intelligent.
When these things, when they're specifically treated, conscientiously treated,
it says, don't be intelligent until you understand.
Till then, one is a fraud, one is pedant, one makes one step after the other,
and one has no opinion.
They can, all right, if you have a make a note on paper or a mentor,
on people you won't forget but don't even voice because till then you are trying to understand
and the moment you have an opinion you become an advocate and you argue with our friends here
have done and that is a total bar to understand your mind is closed your eyes are closed you are
intelligent and so one says very stupidly what can this be in any
diagnostic process the greatest danger is intelligent and diagnostic processes
are processes in which you get paid for being conscientious and not while you take
down the case history dismisses him you take it down you know damn well in your
mind it's got nothing to do with what the situation is but still here it is and you
take put it down and nine times out of ten that rash really has nothing to do with what
your complaint is and the tenth time yes and it is sick you're then you're clued
to the unraveling of a complex syndrome but you've put her down you don't see
that's something else you all right patient has a rash on the buttocks and
you suspect it's nothing and so one takes it down one is conscientious and
has no opinion all together when you cleanly and not to be intelligent and
especially enough in diagnostic let me see there are two areas in which one is
never right one is never right about people never because you can look into
And one is never bright about the market.
Why is one never bright about the market?
No, the mirror of customers.
Why is one never bright about the market?
Because, look, here you are making widgets, or you run a hospital,
and therefore to you widgets are important.
And the hospital is a fact and important.
And so you cannot but be productful,
and see your own product or service writ large.
Except the fact that any product and any service is trivial to the market.
It is marginal.
Most of us never think of the hospital until we need it, do you?
And hope we won't have it.
And until that time comes, nothing will work out.
And that, for most of us, how much of time do people spend during their lifetime in the hospital,
to forget those four days after they are born during which they are not really
conscious of the hospital environment and make no market study and so other
than that how much of your time are you likely to spend in a hospital your life
60 years 70 years how many days that's 21,000 plus days 25,000 days how many
days are you likely to spend in the hospital 20 or 30 including terminal where you again you are not
that interested other than that five eight ten twelve not even one percent it's one quarter one
percent the average now it's an experience that stands out in your memory precisely because it
is so rare and so and you know and we all hope so infrequent and all of you have only one desire
when they release you which is not to come back and so the hospital is totally trivial margin
how many widgets have you bought lately any of you they are in that refrigerator you just bought
here but hey if you have to vote to them you'll probably scream that the manufacturer better
recall the damn thing it's in the back someplace you never expect anybody to
go in you you don't even know that they're in the manufacturers engineers
have specified them or I don't know what and the servicemen can find them in his
manual and that's it I don't think you realize how many electronic relays you
are likely to have in your house today but a great man you're spending a lot of
of time thinking about them anybody you know what that reliance electric company or whatever it is
down there which makes them by the zillions they better think about nothing else or the damn stuff
won't work so they cannot look at the market they have to start out with they may accept the facts
but they don't really accept ever there's none of us in this room had ever heard of an electronic
really a good beck of nice money he saw it's inconceivable it's unconceivable to them that
you don't know their brand name it's all around you in your house you know but hidden at the back
of the television uh it and you got quite sure that it's important to you that if so you can't
couldn't care for all you care all you care about is that when you turn the switch on the tv it goes
on and doesn't flicker too bad whether it's done by rubber bands or whether they have microbes in
there or for only a no corporate vice president miniaturized you couldn't care i hope so but if
you make this stuff you better and you can now as a man as a producer or provider free yourself
because if you consider the field product or service the way the customers needed you can't
you couldn't do it you have to take it seriously and therefore the brighter you are in marketing
they're worse off the greatest source of product failure new product or service failure is that the
people who make it see a significant improvement to the user there is none because let me see
to the user the ability for the fact that this tv tube now warms up in 16 milliseconds instead of in
80 milliseconds anybody have you holding a stopwatch and have you got one that counts
milliseconds, by the way. Do you know it? But that, you know, that's of the order of
... for that they had to suspend the law of nature, practically. And it's an improvement
in warm-up time of the order of ... two orders of magnitude. What the manufacturer will not see,
and cannot see, is that he accomplishes this tremendous improvement in warming-up time by
making it impossible to install and service the damn thing. He doesn't think
of it, especially the sieve, and so he doesn't realize he gets the original
order. He doesn't get the reorder because the servicemen rebelled against him, or because
service bills go up and the dealer gets service complaints and goes back to
manufacturers and says, I'm losing customers because the bill is so high, and the
manufacturer then looks at it and find this is this miracle relay that nobody
can service this you have to take the roof of the house and so it switches to
something it doesn't change is that what I think of the switches of the OEM order
and that's impossible for you to see because you don't as a manufacturer you
go on the fact that ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of our gimmicks
never fail yeah that's perfectly right but you know you get to complete from
that statistically insignificant number that have a series the numbers always
statistically insignificant but they but that's where you get to complete the
others don't get fraud it no no no none of you ever write a letter congratulating
the manufacturer on the fact that you didn't have a service problem is a relay
you don't know exists have you all right and no should come in so one is never
bright the one market one goes out and look and ask questions I once had a
client a large business publisher loosely publishing and at every
editorial conference they were trying to somebody said we have to change the format the readers are
getting tired of it well then you part of my unpleasant duty as they consulted to point out
that the average renewal cycle was 18 months very few readers got the damn stuff long enough
to get tired of it then the editors got tired and the salesmen got tired of it that's understanding
very important. But every time you went out and asked customers, customers didn't even know that
they were getting a format, you know. That's a publisher's term, not a reader's term. And that's
very typical. And they damn near killed every one of their products, because they couldn't keep
their hands off. And they fritzed around. And we had looked at their customers, which they
flatly refused it. They never went out. They were much too brilliant for it. There would have seen
that foreman in that plant, and he had the book which he had organized according to his concerns,
and he filed this foreman's letter, industrial relation, so that he could look up here he had
a problem of planning, or a problem of resistance to change, or a problem of fatigue. But if you
change the format he couldn't find it anymore the whole usefulness of it he
never read it by the head when he needed it he looked it up and by changing the
format you're made it difficult for him but nobody went out and asked him for
that they were brilliant the most brilliant people I've ever worked the
room full of genius and that means it but they were right on market and money
stupid and conscientious and so when you're the insane seven you define or
you put everything down then you take your red pencil and eliminate you want
to tell you I can't hear you but that's me that's one or two maybe not
I ask you to think through whether you can think of any other possible ways of defining this problem.
You know, it is conceivable that they were right the first time and that this is a personality.
It's just plain conceivable that they picked the wrong man.
That they did not make it possible for him to succeed by not looking at the wrong man.
What is this fellow who just quit? Anybody here know what his basic personality problem was in that job, or might have been?
He totally lacked respect, academic value, and academic...
The way academia behaves, it's an environment like any other, and he just didn't have any respect,
and no empathy for dealing with this plain, wrong choice of business.
And then nobody said to him,
look my boy, think through what you should expect from him,
how you should behave.
They applauded him, but nobody challenged him.
So we did what we had done in the previous place,
where it was appropriate.
Previous place was the Rhode Island Museum of Design,
School of Design, if you want to know.
And this happens to be the Fogg Museum of Harvard, in case you haven't been there.
And he did exactly what he had done down in Providence, only 70 miles away, you know.
He did it, and he was right there, and he just didn't fit.
No respect for the way academia behaves, didn't make any effort to find out,
And they, in turn, lack the elementary rules of managing people, and say, oh, you know, this is just playing hands, picking the wrong hand, and then not giving him any help and guidance. That's all it is.
And if you observe the elements, the rules of personnel management, and they are, believe me, elementary, which is that you make sure that the people you pick, who is your culture, if you want a big word, and then secondly, make sure that they think through what does the job require of me now.
It's a different job. It pays more than the Rhode Island School of Design.
But there, the Rhode Island Museum of Design is a freestanding museum,
and you don't have to build relations to all kinds of complicated structures,
such as the graduate faculty and the universities are hierarchical,
Universities are ranked countries, and universities, by definition, are always liberal about other people's children and are the most reactionary organizations around, but anything internal is concerned.
Just imagine, you know, 10 years ago, just about 10 years ago, we had a massive student rebellion, remember? Anybody old enough to remember?
Any other institution would have jarred out overnight, totally changed, but ten years later you can be there slightly.
In fact, not whatever.
Any structure is risk-free.
Breakfast is 8.7.
Cutting the crack.
For better or worse, maybe some of the things it resists are things one also resists.
But the achiever is not eager to be open to innovation.
Yes, there he was in a museum in an old, run-down town that knew it was run-down and that wanted to sing and welcome the change.
His own social structure greatly and very appropriate.
And nobody but nobody said, look, Joe, you aren't in Providence anymore.
You aren't in a municipal museum anymore.
Will you please think through what the new job requires?
The only thing we can tell you is that what you did in your old job to make you successful is the wrong thing in the new one.
That's always appropriate, right? When the job changes.
I know what it is, because academia doesn't seek any personal responsibility.
It's one of its endearing traits and one of its weaknesses.
But it's one of its characteristics.
And so you brought in a bright, young, eager beaver.
He figured that ordinary human beings would always figure, I got the big promotion and I'm the big lead, and therefore what got me the promotion is the right thing to do now that I have it. When you put it this way, it's obviously a stupid argument, but you don't put it that way.
He just did all the things that worked in Providence, Rhode Island.
He was no longer in Providence, Rhode Island, but on the Harvard Yard, and he didn't belong there.
And nobody challenged him.
But also, I'm picking him.
I didn't say what kind of a person you need, somebody who fits an academic environment.
Look, I'm going to be in this place.
Here at the Claremont College is our museum since the last three years.
I've had a renaissance, a revivalist thought.
We brought a young man in here, we're absolutely moribund.
We have some very good stuff, and we have lovely exhibition space,
and it was just totally unused, and what it was used for was the wrong thing.
We brought in a fellow from it, an assistant director in Princeton.
First he had been in an academic environment, he understood it,
he knows its values, he knows how it behaves,
He's good at manipulating it to make you do what he thinks he wants to have done, but he isn't working it.
And secondly, he thought through what can we do, the resources these places have,
and the kind of culture and anthropological center we present.
And he has been one of the greatest successors as a museum director.
Not doing anything terribly sordid, but it endured, and it was brighter than most in
thought of this thing itself.
That's really something to watch over.
Nobody did it yet.
So for all you know, one possibility is this is what they thought it was.
This being sorted out by saying, oh, we have to look for somebody and let's hope to get
somebody who's going to work out better than the last one.
Well, that's not really a very clear and operational statement of personal selection,
but what he's saying is, we picked the wrong person.
Can you think of yet one more?
You said all you can think of.
May I please say that one never stops with fewer than three.
Two, you know, you all know this is catalog with good, better, and best, don't you?
What's the psychological control? Old man lifts, that's the one legacy of Richard Sears to see his robot.
Otherwise he lifts nothing. But it's one of the most important.
Totally untrained, untutored watchmaker or whatever he was, hit upon this in 1887 or some such time.
No more than three and no fewer than five.
Why? And he hit upon it not because he had any psychology courses,
if he had any schooling in the middle of second grade, but because he had that insight.
Do you know what you know about why one doesn't stop with two,
and why one need not go beyond three, and should not go beyond maybe five?
Too many choices you get confused. How many is too many?
Four.
i can't see this where where does it come from here i can't what how many is too many no sir
what's the absolute outside limit seven five yeah well don't get it you got any reasons
what do we know let me say we know that nobody but nobody has ever been able to see more than
seven objects in his mind's eye try to see seven apples seven distinct apples uh about fifty
percent of us can't do it i can't 60. seven is the outside there are you can't train yourself
to go up to nine or ten there are people who are good at simultaneous test players can do such
things how many simultaneous test players are there and it takes years of training and above
nine you can't really do seven yes but most of us are around five you go beyond five it becomes
fuzzy and so too many is five plus beyond us you know primitive tribes anybody know the typical if
you go to new guinea up in the hills and there is a tribe of very primitive bronze age tribe
They usually count one, two, three, many, they don't have five fingers, but five, very few go beyond five, and so if you go five is really the most, after that you begin to confuse, after that there is no real differentiation, after that you, and after that you begin to make trade-offs, and that's confusing you.
here is that the refrigerator and it's bigger by a couple of cubic inches but it also costs a hundred
dollars more and then you begin to be confused because uh you don't it's nice to have a little
more space all right if you have seven brats at home you're going to get extra space to do it
but how many of us have seven rats at home and on the other hand four times a year you have a big
party and then you run out of icebox space, but that's four times a year. And
it's really worth 180 extra bucks. And then you begin to be
confused when you have to make trade-offs. You become confused.
But if you have fewer than three, you feel you have no choice. Either-or is not
a meaningful choice. It's on the one hand, on the other hand, and on the third hand
that's a meaningful choice we have lots of experience and that shopper goes into
the appliance store there are only two brands to go out and say there is no
choice then she prefers this single franchise dealer where she doesn't have
to make a choice among branding where she shops around and their friends say
her a hot point is a good friend but the service ain't so good around here you're
better off with willful right here you see the other way around and he doesn't
have to make it so so either no choices or awesome and if you go about three
you're confused with the good veteran bit of tears which Richard he is kind of
reach for intuitively is sound psychologically it gives the optimum of meaningful choice
and the minimum of confusion and of the agony of decision the decision is meaningful and it's not
agonizing you go above it and you get into making value judgment to what is more important pastel
colors or size. Now the advertising agency always like present more choice
and that's their mistake and they always try to spread
differentiation that don't differentiate in the customer mind and so don't go
beyond two three because you really have no choice and don't go too much above
where they're beginning to become few and you may have to put down seven
alternatives and then eliminate three and see what which is right off hand is the
possibility it's on the outside way over there in the corner out bottom of it but
if it's fewer than three you will find that you begin to argue now this is
All right, mind dynamics, but, you know, one is limited by one's tools, and just as none
of us here in this room can hear supersonic sounds which our dog can hear, and since so
far no dog has yet taken out the subscription to the symphony, and musicians therefore stay
within the range of human hearing which limits them that they can live with and on the other hand
we can handle what no dog can have no animal no other animal can handle both pitch and rhythm so
our music has both dogs that absolutely no sense for rhythm and me have a very wide range of tone
of perception cats a very narrow one and very high sense of rhythm no look at your pets when
and you play music, they react quite different.
And dogs, rhythm, they don't hear rhythm.
Cats are incredibly sensitive.
But now they're coming to me.
What we are, we can handle both.
And therefore, our human unit almost every place,
rhythm and pitch.
Right here, there's percussion right there,
but then you have the nose flute,
and the plucked instrument, which gives you a tonal quality.
That's human, and one unit.
But on the other hand, one doesn't go into sounds we can't hear.
And one doesn't go into rhythmic subtleties which we can't catch on.
You see that when it comes to a beat, the 1 64th of a fast rhythm,
most of us will be lost.
Not all trained musicians can follow, but most of us.
And therefore, trained musicians put it in to entertain themselves and
their fellow musicians for one second, but then they go back to rhythm differentiations,
which all of us here can follow, or most of us. And so one accepts the fact of the limitation
of the two, and the senses are two. And our brain imposes a kind of differential grating
on the universe, and beyond a certain resolution it doesn't register, and above a certain
resolution, it doesn't matter. And that one has to fit. And no point arguing with this.
And three is a number we find very comfortable, and five we can still manage, but not easy.
And you go below three, and you have no real choice, and you lose the ability to understand.
one shoots for at least three alternatives not because there's any logic but because there's
perception logically no reason to prepare any number the perceptual three is something that
enables us to understand to discern and that's important but that's the minimal not the maximum
and not even necessarily the object so can you think of an additional alternative possible
Yes sir, I can't hear you. A political question. What? You mean inside college politics.
Do you mind if I say that one suppresses such ignoble instincts? As long as one can,
don't worry about who is right until you understand what is right. Then one worries
about who is right. But don't yet worry about the fact that you have a good, nice fight in
your faculty between your intellectual between between intellectual arrogance and knowledge
which is a very common political fight in which your so-called humanities faculty does not believe
that anything exists unless it's in a book and you have the great art historians today
who never never never will look at a painting and only at a slide haven't you found them
That's a political issue. That is essentially the belief that nothing that has not been
pre-digested by a scholar and reduced to a footnote is worth knowing. If I sound as if
I were not of that persuasion, I am not. But then I belong on the other side, you know.
And I would much rather look at a poor second, fifth way, Dutch 16th century landscape than
the slide of a Royce Dale, much rather, and have the perception of a painter, and it isn't
the greatest painter, but at least it's immediate, and that great Solomon Royce Dale is in the
Simon Norton Museum in Pasadena, because I wasn't quick enough to buy it in 1936 and
didn't have the money, I should have stolen it.
And I can't take my students to Pasadena if I'm in Seattle, and so I'm not going to show
them a slide.
I'd rather show them a Van Briskirk, who is Solomon Wright Steele's carbon copy, but not
the first carbon copy, but the 11th carbon copy, but he's still a painter.
He isn't very good, but he's good, and you can look at him, and it's an immediate experience
a painting and not a slide in order to changes in size the pieces are very peculiar size of the
canvas needs something you know but that's an anti-intellectual stance and you have the politics
where that faculty or a group in that faculty believes and so many do that the good lord and
and not, let me say, on the seventh day.
That came much earlier.
Most academicians, you know, believe
that the Bible begins with the word,
in the beginning were the academic disciplines.
And insofar as the Bible begins with, in the beginning
was chaos, they may have a point.
But certainly the Bible does not begin with the word.
There's a strong contingent belief that, however.
And believe that anything but anything that can remotely ever be used for anything productive or useful is therefore wrong.
That the slightest danger that any benefit will ever accrue, it must be banished.
All you do is produce people who aren't capable of producing anything except more footnotes.
And therefore, museum directors are quite obviously contemptible.
They are beneath contempt.
The business executives, they are ladies present.
And they draw that wonderful non-existing line between graduate and professional learning
lines that was known.
You know, very much of you're going to run a factory that makes hammers with only hammers
hammering name not hammers to kill your mother-in-law but that's not decided by
the hammer and the hammer is equally useful in for both applications
the situation decides which one it's going to be and so the one thing it is no good at is get your earwax out of
But that isn't in the catalogue, we promise that.
So, no.
And so you have to don't...
Who is right in rhetoric?
What's the definition of rhetoric, do you know?
Rhetoric is to make the right decision effective.
The art of effective.
For this you have to know first what the right is.
Now rhetoric is a test of logic.
If you can't convince anybody, then logic is absurd.
absurd. But on the other hand, logic is a text of record. If it doesn't hold up when the logical analysis is wrong, period. No matter how many people cheer and throw their caps in the air and say hallelujah, they still are each other's touchstone. But logic comes first. First you have to ask what is right.
you know I became a consultant the other really became went out of the blue and
don't ask me why you know most of that means if that is a top management
structure 43 and old man's own didn't want me and made it very clear but since
he was overruled did everything he could he never approved of me or of the
project. One may be in the previous order, but he certainly didn't differ. But he helped as much as he could. And he called me in about three months after I started and said, Mr. Booker, I'm not going to tell you what you should do and what you should tell us and how you should learn your study, but I'm going to tell you one thing. We have 53 vice presidents in General Motors. They are totally
different one from another, but one thing to have in common. Every one of them can
make every conceivable compromise without the consortium's help. So don't worry about
whether I will like it or whether this fellow will like it or that fellow. Think
through what is right. And I was young and stupid and inexperienced and I didn't
And the book that came out of that, that has been the first management book of mine, in many ways the most successful, the greatest possible investment.
It founded the discipline of management, basically. Not because I was good, but because I was fierce.
I had absolutely none because I worried about who is right rather than what and here was more
we call the boss of Chevrolet and about at the end mean and all Irish accountant is ever seen
in my life very clear that he was not in sympathy and I made transition is that winning over hell
know all i did was earn his content and deservedly so and quite obviously i was a weakest and she
didn't hesitate to trample all over me and here was nick dreister of cadillac wonderful and charlie
wilson as they were in sympathy and so i thought i knew the things they were in favor of and
who went up some of them not i didn't put anything in i didn't believe in but i
I stressed things they, I thought, believed in more than I would have.
And I totally lost them.
First one thinks through what.
And then one says, how do I get this extra?
And don't start worrying about politics.
You know what you want.
For three reasons.
Reason number one is that one has to make compromises.
And then you better know what is the right compromise,
compromise what is the wrong compromise some of you have heard me say that have you huh i would
imagine so look and that's the risk of boring to one of your fears half a loaf is still bread it's
the right comfort at least you get further you know maybe hungry but at least you get fed the
judgment of someone cutting a baby in half is the wrong compromise half the baby is not happy baby
It's a tank of meat.
It's the wrong compromise.
But unless you know what is right,
you don't know which is the right compromise.
You're giving away the essentials,
as if you were pawns, if they're kings and queens of the ..
And here, you don't know what you can say and what you can't.
The secret of negotiation.
Anybody here a good negotiator?
Labor relations, bidding on a contract for the city of Oren.
The secret of negotiation is to know what is important to the other side and unimportant to you and vice versa.
And you offer a concession which to the other side is very important and to you means very little.
But for that you have to know what is like.
Oh, you give up the important thing to gain one-upmanship advantage in minute design.
That's the first reason why one starts out these walkways right.
And if one understands it, one doesn't start to bother.
The next reason is that the world isn't that predictable.
In my experience, it is.
Here I spent 20 hours with Marvin Coyle and developed a good deal of respect for the SOB,
Old Irish Accountant, and also got from him one of my very best stories,
which is not something to take lightly.
As sat in, Marvin Coyle was a great preacher on the beatitudes of decentralization,
not virtues, beatitudes.
So I sat in his office there on the beatitudes,
And suddenly there was a telex which was next to the spittoon.
It began to yammer and that turned around and it said,
Pete, don't pay any attention to it.
That's only the Kansas City plant manager telexing in that he's going out to lunch
and kept on telling me about the total autonomy of local management.
Very few people to whom I owe that good a story.
But also, I thought I knew things, you know, he was an old, nasty, tough, but he had a
better brain.
He had done a great deal of things, and he had realized that this decentralization approach
of him worked only where you could really set up a genuine business with its own P&L
and its own model.
and that therefore Chevrolet could not be decentralized, but also that that big a unit
but commercially fully competitive could not and did not develop that.
