Nobody in 1943 could have done or could do, but he was broken for it.
In other words, he was 20 years ahead of me, and I was a young, arrogant worker's napper.
I didn't see it.
And so I lost his support, but I could have gotten it, and earned his contempt, and deserved it.
And that always, you always then get wrong with your politics.
The people who you think are on your side, your side only, they approve.
They let you down when it comes to it.
And where you expect to meet violent opposition,
hell, there ain't none.
You're trying to battle down an open door, you know.
And the third reason is that
if you mix rhetoric with logic,
you'll make no sense.
If you substitute rhetoric
where you should have logic and vice versa,
And it's a jungle, and you're confused, and you sound confused, and you are, and you lose both.
So will you please not worry about politics, but always worry about politics in the broadest sense,
which is essentially the relationship of personality and power.
And both exist wherever we have human beings, you know, except the fact that wherever you have six human beings, you have it,
beginning with the Boy Scouts and the rule of politics is as small as the palm
the more violent the way there is nothing quite as vicious as the
politics in a small college faculty unless there be the politics of a small
Catholic Archbishop in Central Ohio and Bellefontaine Ohio 60 members of the
fact is they see each other all the time and don't see anybody else. And what the
wife of one said to the mistress of the other, that's world events. The smaller the
pond, the bigger the waves, the choppier the waves. And except the fact that, let me say,
that's why the invention of this country, which is the isolated political
Catholics, it's such a vicious invention. Washington, D.C. was the first one. Before that, nobody had
that asinine idea. Anybody know why we had it? They couldn't decide between
Pennsylvania and Virginia, the two largest and most popular states. They made the
wrong compromise. The right compromise would have been to have no Catholics.
That would have been the right compromise. That people have lived with, don't you think so?
Easily. But a capital that is a governmental city that has no businesses, no industry, no culture,
nothing but political losses. It's a horror.
I saw it insulates government and it means that section chief only meets section chief
and president and first of all dominates everything
and governmental backbiting becomes world events
And then you have a Washington Post, which is basically a company house organ.
But unlike most of them, not controlled, unfortunately, by company management.
Unfortunately, it would be much better if this were simply called
HW Daily Chatter, you know, which is what it is.
And, fortunately, Australia copied it, Brazil copied it, and all of them are horrors, but
they cultivate their wrongs, they make bureaucratic gossip into an art form, and they didn't believe
it.
So, didn't start out in, but even in Washington, don't start out for it, start out to think
to write what you want to accomplish, and then one says, all right, whom do I have to bribe?
Don't ever believe them. You see, one always starts out with pro, and that means that bribery
of owning only costs money. Everything else costs virtue. And whom do I have to bribe?
Where do I have leverage? Who owns me? What do I have to do? All right, next year he's
for re-election and then he needs the votes of the sunflower farmers, you know, he's the
only one who's got sunflower farmers in his district, but he needs them.
What can be put into that bill of subsidies to medical schools to make it of advantage
to the sunflower farmers?
One can write in a research project on the use of sunflower oil as the one universal
medicine, you know.
cost only 50 million but twice the value of the sunflower crop. And so what do we
have to do to become a political one? There's not ever a product. Politics is a branch of how they make their rights. That comes after you understand.
That is terribly important. And then you know that the chairman of that committee loves
parrots, and anything that has the word parrot in it, in before it, don't look like it.
There's nobody in this room who does not have his own word magic. You won't have it.
Every one of you has good words and every one of you has bad words. One of the secrets
of the rhetoricians is to look at you and listen to you and know your bad words and
And that's legitimate.
That's you within the way you are.
And they're looking at you and realizing what are the points of agreement on which you can
build and cannot build on, this agreement, where it's a unity here in diversity so that
we can build a coalition.
Which of these things is the one one makes into an issue? What's an issue?
Politics don't know what an issue is.
What does the senator in Sacramento mean when he says,
that's very interesting, but I don't think it will be an issue.
What? What to the public?
Ah, no, no, you're close.
What does it have to be to be an issue?
Look, you have to be able to...
An issue is a decision around which you can organize.
otherwise separate and divergent.
The issue enables you to have the blacks, the women, and the orthodontists working.
That's an issue on which you can put a bring-set-up, otherwise nothing will come together.
And if you can't do it in a pluralist society, such as ours, you can't get in.
That's why you aren't going to see National Health Service.
because it cannot be made into an issue. It only divides. Now one reason, of course, is that nobody in this room has the slightest interest in it,
because not one, all of you are on national health, and you all are on prepaid medicine, unless you are a physician. Do we have any physicians here?
Only physicians in hospitals are on a fee-for-service basis. You and I, prepaid, don't you?
And you're totally disinterested in the size of the individual medical bills because you don't pay it anyhow.
And your medical bill is totally unaffected or very remote.
But also there is no issue because there are no two groups that can be brought together into alignment on anything in the health care.
And that's why some think that's a media event and not an issue.
And Senator Kennedy will bring it up every two weeks, and he'll be referred to committee and that's it.
Because fundamentally there is nothing to do with becoming an issue.
It's only divisive and not cohesive.
And an issue has to be both.
I doubt it so far.
Nobody has said, do I really need 18 x-rays for that broken rib?
Or will it drive up the cost of the national health care?
with anybody you'd like to see anybody see a relationship between you x-ray
bill and your health care premium let me see if you don't you are right there is
now much to remove you are not affecting the health care no and the three and a
half to four percent of our population who are covered that's what I wanted is
Now, you may say there is need for better catastrophic illness insurance, though anybody know who needs better catastrophic illness insurance? Only one class of patients. What? Retirees. They have to get terminal cancer.
The only bills that exceed our present existing ceilings of terminal count.
Now that is for the individual and very high risk.
In 30 terms, this is talking of 100 to 1% typically.
And that was very easy to cover.
We removed all ceilings on catastrophic inlet insurance,
insurance our premiums wouldn't go up at all basically it's a remote business now that's and
you may say that most of us are grotesquely over insured and that if the deductible were a thousand
dollars per family or per person per year or three percent of your income the co-insurance about
about this up to ten thousand dollars a year bill where 80 percent not one of us would be seriously
and the angels and the cost would go down by about 50 percent for me to send in a claim to medicare
for a 33 dollar doctor but it's just plain silly you know but i do it uh but you won't pay for it
there's no point and if instead of the first hundred dollars deductible under my the first
thousand dollars would be deductible none of us would feel it and i would not have a claim at all
almost none of us would have a change so we are over insured very heavily uh which may have
something to do with the high cost of healthcare but very little the idea that healthcare is
cost or price sensitive no there's no evidence none at all and so it's not an issue it's
something in the sunday supplement on the order of we are in romania and you read about it and
shudder but you are not going to do much about it and so it's not going to get very far and there's
a lot of lip service but believe me there's no union in this country that wants national health
there is because it would lose the one remaining major bargaining council of the american union
It would become a totally bureaucratic organization.
The one area in which there are still benefits,
and no union wants to be with it.
It's not an issue. You can't organize or not.
An issue is something you can organize.
It can all bring diverse and otherwise deep groups
and forces that have nothing in common
together for joint and common action.
Then it becomes an issue. Then you can polarize that.
It's very important. But you don't know what issue you have until you know what is right and what you want to accomplish.
So don't start with political questions. They come at you and they are very important. One doesn't start out with that.
No, do you have any other, any other possible alternatives, alternative definitions of what this problem might be all about? Yes, ma'am.
man i can't hear you what do you mean by that a communications problem the lady says and that
doesn't know between what and whom not very close to the personality problem it's different from the
closest uh who should if you look at it there's very little doubt that our late and then lamented
director believed in mind leading that he believed that what he did was obvious to him and therefore
it must be obvious to everybody else and she never sat down and wrote out this is what i'm going to
do and then went and saw the art historian and said this is what i plan to do does it make sense
to you and she went and saw the dean and she went and saw that lady on the board of trustees who is
the widow of the man who gave all their money and he did not take care of his communication
then no doubt and this is not what you meant you thought that what look there's that there's no
doubt that our late lamentable colleague the director did not take responsibility for his
relationship from this way the cases and that he thought like most of you that lives in the
the Black Forest take care of communication. Believe me, whatever it is in the Black Forest
media, they don't take care of communication. That's your responsibility. And all of you
good people here, and I've included myself in this group, are in so many messes. We don't
our relationships are our problem. We wait for the personnel department and the boss,
communication specialist, and the ellipses in the black forest to take care of our relationship.
Nobody can and nobody... That director may have been out of the job much sooner if he had done
so. It's quite possible that if he had sat down and said, this is what I really plan to do and
this is what I believe in, and this is what I'm after,
and she has gone and made it around.
People would have said to him,
no, that's not what we are going to stand for.
And it might have become obvious within six months,
honeymoon very rarely lasts much longer,
that this is the wrong place for him.
They made a mistake offering him the job.
He made a mistake taking it.
This is not what the university is going to let him do.
makes no sense to the university, and what he believes the mission of a museum director is in these days is incompatibility.
And he might have to make the choice between accepting and adapting or quitting.
It would have saved everybody, including himself, a lot of agony, but at least some.
And there's very little doubt that if you try to do this in academia, nobody would have understood what you're trying to do.
Academia is not used to people making sense. Academia is not used to people. Academia doesn't see an institution.
That chairman of mathematics is mathematic. That's one of the strengths of professional organizations, that's their weakness.
I was a young newspaper man, very young, deputy managing editor of a fairly big local paper
and West German correspondent of the Manchester Guardian, I was bilingual totally.
And also taught law and graduate, young lecturer at National University when Hitler came, and
I had made up my mind a year earlier, I wasn't going to see, but I was hanging on and postponing
my report that the university there was the great liberal university of continental Europe.
And the most, the great liberal was a very great distinguished biochemist, Nobel Prize
caliber.
He got it, too.
And then the Nazis knew what they were doing, their first attempt to come and take over
a German university was that one, because they quite rightly figured if they could get
control of this one. He didn't have any resistance any place. So they sent the Commissar in,
who called the first faculty meeting, and I'd never gone to one, but I
went to this one. And the Commissar made a speech, which these days you read in family newspapers, but in
those days nobody had ever heard, or heard, yes, but certainly not in polite society,
and certainly not in a faculty meeting of a very distinguished class. And they made it very
clear. It started out by now, 27th of February, that as of the 15th of March, any
Jewish member of the faculty would be out, not be allowed to enter the faculty.
Terrific shock, not to me, I bet, it doesn't matter how much I knew what was in it. But the others had,
everybody saw the campaign rhetoric. And then he kind of inserted them into the
very clear, you're either a follower, obey what I say, or you'll be in a concentration camp.
And when he was through, about 30 minutes, he rang in the most
powerless and filthiest language you can possibly imagine.
It was silent, and everybody waited for the distinguished biochemist to clear his throat,
and then he went up and said,
I knew you were talking, Mr. Commissar, and it was thought-provoking.
I have one question. Will there be more money for research in biochemistry?
Whereupon he was assured by the Commissar that for racially fewer researchers there would always be more money.
And people who have been lifelong friends, Jewish and non-Jewish members of the faculty, left separately.
I left Frankfurt in Germany the next noon.
But you know that biochemists, while guilty of the greatest sin, the greatest sin, believe me, is not lust for power, and it is not right.
It is indifferent. You know the old gospel hymn, where were you when they crucified my Lord? That's the greatest sin.
And this, yes, but at the same time, this is the way professionals behave, except that's an extreme case, but you're not really interested in the future of the university.
They have that big research project in biochemistry, and so professionals, their strength and their weakness is past friendship.
The strength of that great surgeon is that he, here is that patient, and the patient has just died on the operating table, but he looks at it and says, a very nice incision. That's the reason that the strength is unlimited.
and it is without it yes at the very top you can transcend it but only at the very top if you
transcend it at the lower level you become a hack you believe that good intentions are a substitute
for craftsmanship your own and on the other hand if you don't transcend it you're then when the
nazi commissar comes in and tramples everything in the best you believe in ask will there be more
money for biochemistry. That's the tragedy of the craft and of the profession. That's the spring.
And the time, the ultimate value is where do you draw the line? Maybe it isn't quite as simple as
I thought when I was 22 or 23, 23, not quite 24, not 23, not yet 24. When I saw it, it was very
And academia is a collection. The strength of academia is that you have the greatest Shakespeare scholar on your faculty and all he cares about.
Only, but most. And that is strengthened in his classroom. It doesn't give too much for what goes on in the rest of the world.
And there is that great story of the greatest mathematician of all time, George Archimedes the Greek,
whose knowledge of geometry enables the city of Syracuse
to hold out against the Romans for 12 years of sea,
though he probably did not manage
to set Roman naval ships on fire through prison.
That can't be done.
That's one thing you've heard about him, haven't you?
But that he probably couldn't do.
Can't be done.
And so that Roman general put Syracuse
the source that gave orders to find mr archimedes and spare him and so he sent a sergeant and 12 men
to hunt for archimedes in that city of burning and men and children were killed right and left
and women were raped and so the sergeant with his 12 men made his way through that horror
asking for mr archimedes finally worked his way to the corner where the old gentleman was supposed
to live and make his way into a courtyard and there was an old gentleman with a man with a
graveyard sitting in the courtyard drawing geometric figures in the sand and he said
where does professor archimedes live the old man looked up and said go away don't you see i'm busy
and sergeants being sergeants they haven't changed much he drew his sword and killed
the old man and of course it was Archimedes and you see the craftsman the
true professional runs that risk the monomania he runs at risk of saying will
there be the same story basically will there be more money for biochemistry the
same mentality but without it you don't achieve what Archimedes and so any group
of professionals is essentially individuals no clock really finds the
University of California is it quality the mob of individuals had together by
parking place and not one of them needs to lose for the University of
California. He was interested in Scythian archaeology, but only Scythian archaeology.
Let the rest of the world go to pop, as long as we can dig Scythian gold objects, he's happy
and makes a contribution. And the next fellow is only interested in the parasites of liver fleas.
That's how they are. And that's how they achieve. And then you accept the fact.
and that is the unit and their values they have in common are precise the things that make them
single-minded and narrow-minded and bigger and you then have to think through your relations
and just to take care of them but it isn't that different you know from your research lab
and it between you and me not that different from your skills and to finish not that different you
know i was a young investment banker in london in the early 30s and the fellow who i was very fond
of was a huge basic for three white russians 1935-6 uh who had come to fled russia after
he watched his revolution when he was 15 so that's 1918 so 16 years later he was in his early 30s
and he was the world's greatest trader in chrysler 35 36 and the new york stock exchange traded
maybe 80 000 shares of chrysler a day he traded 500 000 day in day out arbitrage from shanghai
to oslo no pocket calculator but he got the chrysler price out of shanghai in chinese dollars
knew immediately how much it was in Norwegian kroners, foreign exchange, insurance rates,
interest, and sold it in Oslo with one-sixty-fourth of a point difference.
They're not, a great, an arbitrageur, wonderful amateur musician, more than amateur, professional,
that played in the, not in Philharmonic, played the bass fiddle.
The only man I've seen that could pick up a basket like a log, 6'7", couldn't escape.
And a weightlifter.
He came home from the stop, down to the stocking station, for 20 minutes, lifted weights.
And when he came up at the end of his training day,
it was when New York opened, 5 o'clock, 3 o'clock around,
he would have a desk in the office.
because I, as of the rest of the day,
had to do myself alone, but next to the partner.
And so he would come in, and one fine day he came in,
and I was sitting there behind a stack,
reference books, and he looked at me and said,
Pete, what are you working on?
And I said, the American automobile industry.
And Marcel used to be interested to hear that
Chrysler looked very good for next year.
He'd be a long searcher for Chrysler automobiles.
I always thought it was a real deal.
This is the mentality of the monomaniac who has reverted.
It was irrelevant to him what they were making.
He wasn't investing in Chrysler, nothing further from it.
He was arbitraging Chrysler between Shanghai, Oslo, and Melbourne
for 1 64th of a point with a time span of eight and a half minutes maybe 12 minutes
with the good arbitrage doesn't hold a position overnight that's who we need doesn't hold any
footage and he was doing it purely by technical consideration oslo was opening six hours later
than shanghai on the rising market although was opening six hours later than shanghai on a pony
more. Or you had Oslo have a strong buying through the Norfolk Credit Bank and had a
customer who was buying Chrysler and the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation is one
who sold. Then you then to know what the difference they are making is excess information and
doesn't add anything to the quality of your decision. It's idle curiosity. And good craftsmen
have no idea. Good craftsmen are like my friend the pianist, the great pianist, who never
knows in what city he is. He travels four months in a year. What's that in Los Angeles?
Now 78. And he's still four months a year. He plays once a day. And the only reason why
he can't do it is that his wife Irene knows where he is. But she gets a tight timetable
from her which does not say we are in sydney or in los angeles which says wake up court 7 15 you know
rehearsal 10 15 conductor that's very important concert master first violin of course he knows
him all he's played with all of them he's really circling here many times i've known most of my
life uh what he never knows where he is irene his wife knows and she also knows so when he puts on
a new shirt that's also on there he gets it the evening before and that's a new shirt if
he travels without fishing he gets it for the whole trip he had to worry and he's exceedingly
critical man and educating on vacation then he's interested in people and museums and cultures
when he works what is important is we play the second branch piano concert that is important
that we are in Sydney or in Los Angeles is unimportant.
Excess information is what has to be eliminated.
And so acceptably, it's the way professionals are.
And then, therefore, you have to work out your relationship.
They won't. They don't even understand that there is such a thing.
But you have to fit the way they work and their values,
or they can't understand. They're very rigid people.
If you were to come to this friend of mine who is highly rigid,
a tremendous interest in history, one of the best amateur medieval historians,
in Jewish history particularly. I don't know anybody who knows that much about
medieval Jewish history. Maybe Salo Baron of Colombia is a great Jewish historian,
no more. But Rudolf Zirkin is a great Jewish historian. In art, wonderful. But when he's on
that concert tour for four months, he plays every night in a different city. He must live the way
you know a herring of the Norwegian coat he doesn't move the coast in the same
water same salinity same temperature same speed of the current the coast move
that's irrelevant to the herring so that traveling pianist the earth moves it's
irrelevant what matters is that the only place Steinway piano so that never a
surprise on a piano that is always in the same environment and that those four
months in the year he has the same repertoire he changes every year but
within that year he doesn't change it's a big repertoire 20-30 pieces maybe no no
more but if you come to him and say I want you to play the Tchaikovsky piano
concertos, he would say, no, you know, just play it. But not this year.
It disrupts. This year, to Brahms and to Beethoven, it's remoter than what have you. And maybe this,
I don't think, will be played much later. No. So he keeps, like the harring, in the same environment.
Then you can stand all this traveling. Otherwise, you know, it would work. How many of us could,
how many of you could stand that much traveling from every day in a different place?
bring serious doubt uh i know i couldn't uh just explain you so that's the profession
so if you work with them you have to take care of your relations and you may say this is a problem
of somebody not being able to manage himself we have got four possible definitions of the problem
only one of them is possible and let me say you know the methodological rule which is it's
10 minutes past time but you know who the rule of arkham's razor ever heard of it
what's often greater you know what's up and razor the gentleman sitting behind the blonde lady
he was just waking up
from the way he nodded he was going to sleep
The minimum of assumptions about this, one starts out with the alternative that requires
information, at least makes it ..
And let me say, on that basis, one
doesn't start to believe what he is talking, his objective.
But it's curious, you know.
If you were to rate them on the basis of ..
William was an English friar who lived in France,
Francisco, France, in the 30th century, great tradition.
And he essentially stripped away all the enormous
theological and metaphysical speculations people
felt they had to make before they could say that a stone
will only, won't only flow downhill.
No, you have to relate it to the first book of Genesis.
No, you don't.
Basically, it's a fewer assumptions.
It's a minimum of assumptions.
And the simplest, the fewest moving parts.
Any engineer in here who still remembers this machine design
course where if the teacher was any good,
he'd hammered home that the ideal machine has only one
moving part.
Remember that, you engineers?
That's how can razor work, applied to engineers.
Murphy's law is an application of how can razor.
Whatever can go wrong will.
Therefore, the fewer things there are,
How the fewer can go wrong, you know, that's the most profound methodological insight.
And on that basis, our last definition is to wonder, begin with, make the fewest.
The next one is that we pick the wrong person and then give him the right guidance, organization
is next, and objectives and mission comes at the very end.
rush into the complicated if the simple one will do it. Except the fact that there is a
parallel or counterpart of the Occam's razor which says don't make things complicated
that they will do themselves. One never has to make things. Everything becomes more
complicated than it should be. In the first place if you are moving
thought that you can do wrong secondly one can always make things more
complicated and one can never make them and over and finally it is the analysis
of the simple that leads to the understanding of the more complex
anybody know where that will come from that's basic that's the basic
methodological principle of which you can organize geometry which is one of
a very great organizing piece in intellectual history and never beneath it. There is nothing
that's elegant. And what he did was essentially take the existing geometric law and organize them
from this simple to the more complicated so that every step gave you additional understanding and
additional analytical power that is the power of beginning with the simple now it may lead to a
dead end you know but if it doesn't then it enables you to understand so in this case here and that's
why it didn't indicate when actually the dean acting on good advice when intelligent but started
out with the most conflict or more possible definition and the one by the way that is going
to be the toughest to do. Just imagine the civil war he's going to unleash by asking
the question of the mission of the art museum. All right, we guarantee that no
director will be appointed for four and a half years. No committee can agree on
that. It's a tough, son of a bitch of a question. A very important one, and we are going to tackle it next week.
But because we, thank God, don't have to find a new director here,
he can afford to tackle it.
He has to do something, and then it'd be better.
Leave intellectual curiosity aside.
If he can tackle this on a simple basis, he's much better off.
And maybe the great conceptual question of the function of the arts
within the university will not be solved,
one of these days may have to be tackled but you will have said museum off and
running and the competent leadership and so the easiest this simple the one with
the one moving part is where you see what this is not the problem
personality and structure and God has projected there's a simply a man who
didn't know how to handle himself in a managerial job and so the next boy you
pick will you please tell him this is what we expect you to do it's you a
goddamn job don't expect us to tell you what your relations are you think so
what it should be what you can it what the faculty can expect from you what
these are missing and you go and make sure that this is understood take care
of your relations all right of you going to be a few things you want to bring
the school kids in we ain't got the parking place we aren't going to spend six hundred thousand
dollars building parking space uh when we have to raise faculty salaries and haven't got the money
for that so the schools kids will have to wait or you want to bring in or you want to greatly
enlarge traveling exhibitions but how we see that the need to give our distinguished art faculty
a forum in the scholarly and art museum and art history world which means we have to focus on our
own and so we have a need here with two for which we look to the museum and all right some exhibitions
we're going to bring in which here is that big exhibition of american indian art which the british
Museum got together which was in Kansas City. Beautiful, wonderful. Well we can get
this because it doesn't cost too much. Exhibitions cost money. And that we cannot
duplicate any something. On the other hand, here is a traveling exhibition of
Chinese ceramics. Very nice, beautiful, with a lovely catalog. Henry Trubner up in
Seattle wrote, one cannot do better than Henry, the great man in Chinese ceramics.
Yeah, but our own oriental art faculty is out of it, so we better have a less distinct local
collector. Maybe we don't have the great Tianlong ways in it. Still, we have reasonably good
training, familiar with it, and we write a good catalog with our own graduate students
doing the research and learning something and writing the introduction on the history of
hills in china and it establishes us in the field and one works it out but for this you first have
to take responsibility for your relationship then we can say this is fine but or then we can say
this is fine but shouldn't we do more of it or you can say this is fine but you'll have to wait
till next year at least we then understand what you're trying to do that's a simple
And only if this does not answer the specs, because the next step is to think through the specs of the solution, now you are ready.
Then one goes to the higher level problem, except the fact that problem solving is not concerned with being, solving the problem.
And therefore, the fact that here is a terribly difficult question of the mission of the university
or art museum, and we leave it there with our functions, except the fact that in a clinical
discipline what matters is not whether the diagnosis is right, but whether the patient
recovers.
And so one's thought is very simple.
One doesn't start out with stomach cancer, but with flatulence.
Let me know how to handle it.
Only when it turns out it isn't will you go further.
And there is a very peculiar intestinal problem
of this patient.
It'll have to wait till he's on the orthosis lab.
Your job is to make him conscious,
not to solve scientific problems.
Your job is to enable that autism to do,
to work within the university.
And not, well, yes, a very important question.
Where do these things go that are not in the traditional terms, academia, which incidentally
no European university would dream of doing, no continental university would dream of it.
It's complicated.
But then they all run a concert either, and they have no drama department.
They are very much modern.
We are not.
So we create problems.
And enrich, incidentally, ourselves thereby.
and enriching them to yourselves thereby.
But that you have to wait.
If you can make the damn thing function on the level of
its structure into relations of a man to his colleague,
well, that's what you do.
But you don't know whether you can or not
in your thoughts or in your specs.
What specifications?
Will any solution have to satisfy?
And it's like a good Johansson gauge,
a go-no-go affair.
There's a fitter, doesn't it?
And if you find that just your relationship doesn't satisfy the specs and regretfully,
you have to move to the next order of things.
But don't ever solve the problem beyond the terms that is needed.
If that patient of yours has a nasty, disagreeable thought flow,
don't go in and treat him for pneumonia,
which is much more interesting.
He had a strep throat, so he knew,
he garbled, he salt watered, he slept in bed for five days.
No scientific miracle, you know.
But you recover, and that's what becomes to you.
It doesn't come to you
for the advancement of medical knowledge.
Okay, thank you very much.
