to do is to look at it and think through what you have to do to make this a formula.
And I'm not going to tell you. That's your job. But I'm going to tell you one thing.
What you did to earn the gift in your job is a wrong thing now that you have it.
That's the one, actually, if it's a change of job, if it isn't, occasionally it happens,
This is actually what I've done. Now this may well have led to the much earlier demise of this particular museum director.
He may have said, well, is that what you think I should...
And he comes in with that program of bringing the kids in from the black ghetto and the open and having...
and making the museum relevant and contemporary and all those nice words.
And you look at them and say, you know, no, the museum is part of the university, and that's what I'm saying.
You know what you can do with your museum. It works out for you.
That's fine. The sooner it's absorbed, the better.
But you know, it may also be that the same fellow whom you've picked from,
because they look at it and say, my God, you never look at it.
Don't ever believe that people see the obvious.
That's the last thing anybody ever sees.
Or he might come back and say, you know,
oh, sure, but let me think.
And 90 days later, he comes back and says, you are right.
It has to be basically the support for the art teaching.
But you know, we are not using it.
We are depending on the art practice.
That's fine.
But here are, look, the university enrollment
enrollment has grown in the graduates from 4,000 to 11,000 students, we have the same
number of undergraduates becoming lit.
And every year, we have a few more, but compared to the percentage of the students.
And one reason for this is that we depend on the author.
It isn't that the students aren't.
It is that we have reserved this for art courses that you have to enroll for credit, and let's
bring in good, well-known speakers, our own faculty
outsiders, instead of a course where
you have to enroll in the Italian Renaissance
four-semester unit with a test.
And you know, your program is already overly full anyhow.
And your father is pushing you into taking some accounting
because you know you aren't that bright.
You have to earn a living somehow.
So better take accounting.
to remind him when I was 15.
And he was right, except that I never learned accounting.
But that only confirmed what he suspected anyhow.
But the kid has a full course, and he's
being told that, and rightly so, that Dr. Svenderton in child
psychology is after his father.
And she's the best teacher we have.
let me see one always says undergraduate to go where the teachers are not where the subjects are
subjects one can learn out of the book in most cases better teachers know the old one always
undergraduate one always says who are they really firstly teacher on that campus never mind what's
it that's that's quite take it in and your faculty is honest competent mediocrity you know they know
all about the baroque then you better take the time uh and then i don't really want to have
25 weeks on the baroque i'm not that interested and so we bring in left to the undergraduate in
which we use our collection slides which are focused on a much broader university audience
and there are many exhibitions so you don't have to have the big scholarly apparatus but
where you can see something and that's fun. And so we change the museum quite a
bit in the way it performs without changing what it performs. Or you may come in and say
never thought of it, you know, but there are certain areas which we leave out
because we don't have the collection. There is all that interesting photography, fabulous
photographic material available there are all the things your month nothing
in the business you want to give to Stanford Art Museum in photography
really Western ah we can get it every delighted to fun and we do something we
don't stand pathetic the month catalog of the
one collection and we don't have anybody who's interested in photography but the
kids are and maybe we go to Eastman Kodak and supplement it with something
from the Kodak Museum in Washington and we have a stunning photography exhibition with six talks
six Wednesday talks on photography and in some are focuses on photography is a
very popular off-campus and off-hours subjects, and of course we integrated, or what have you.
And we have, what we are doing, what we have always done, only is find new ways of work.
And let me say, unchallenged, this is, can easily be explained as a case in elementary
personal failure, but not failure of whomever you put in. And will you please
learn from this, that one never, if a people decision you make fails to pan out,
one doesn't invoke the pizza principle, which is an alibi for lazy and
incompetent managers, that's all it is. And one doesn't say, John ain't no good.
one says I made a mistake the one thing we know you made it whoever put him in
or in made a mistake and the first law for a manager is that whoever makes a
mistake has to bail it out and not back it to somebody that bailed out one faces
after one mistake then I made a mistake now how do I make it again what do I
learn from it the next time around I don't repeat and this is the academia is
so far behind personally in academia me so you respond because nobody thinks
through the assignment and nobody there's no guidance no management for
the new appointee but in the rest of the universe things are a little better and
And could be much better, John, because typically you're making the decision the way you made it here.
You go by reputation, you want a good man. Good for what is the question? There is no such thing as a good man.
Good for what? Good for running a popular big city museum. That's not the same thing as a university, where it's a teaching.
museum which means it's got art objects in it that's all you know but it's very
different Cliontel and a different purpose so the assignment has to be
thought through and then they probably they might have come up with their
missions of it they might have ended up in a Python mission at least with a
physio they might have had the people who said what we want to do is what
Ms. Kirchhoff did only more so and better, and slightly adapted to the fact that when
she took over, we had 1,400 students, 1,800, and they're quite large. In the 20s, 1,800
students, that was substantial. A small college in those days was under 500, even to say it.
And universities that you think of as large universities, not as big.
Stanford had 1,600 undergraduates when World War II started,
and the Board of Trustees was screaming about cutting back.
The place was losing its character.
Princeton had 1,400.
University of Pennsylvania had a giant downtown affair at 2,400.
Columbia had 8,000. In other words, you could be a great university, but it was very, while it was no longer so at Princeton as it had been in Woodrow Wilson's time,
Woodrow Wilson knew every undergraduate personally. Well, he had 390 of them. I'm quite sure that he didn't, because I was dean of a small liberal arts women's college in the 40s,
and we had 360 students, and I also thought that you have the kids. I didn't, except by
that time, times had changed. In 1908, they said, good morning, Mr. Wheeler. The kids
didn't come back until Mr. President and Tom Smith. And by my time, the kids came back.
Thank goodness. They said, no, I'm not Mary, I'm Sally. But, so I found out very fast,
I didn't know all of them, but I knew all the pieces, seriously, by the time they were juniors and sophomores.
But, uh, sure, 400, you can still know the names and have some idea, rough, very rough idea of older ones.
Uh, maybe you even have some idea that this kid is playing the piano because you hear it in the recital or so and the orchestra or what have you.
So, yeah, but you know, Princeton had it that in 1938 or 39, you couldn't know them anymore.
But the dean of Princeton at the time still made it a point of seeing every single undergraduate
at least twice during the four years for an hour, and could do it.
Just imagine the time today, and Princeton's still not 500, Princeton's not much larger
than we are here at the Samuel College, but that's all.
imagine. So you have to change. There is a point where quantity becomes quality
philosophy and mathematics at that point. But certainly that university and Ms. Kirchhoff's
working life has moved from one phase to another by sheer quantity. Then one has to do that.
But you might also say that maybe with that growth, what, a mission that makes sense?
No longer.
Maybe we have to fight it out.
And then, let me see, one doesn't bring somebody in until one has brought it out.
Then one puts in an acting custodian and fights it out.
And that takes three years.
and maybe then you have rich and subdued and in effect moves the museum out, not physically but in every other aspect.
And then you're probably, if you are smart, also move the artistry faculty out of the museum or it won't work.
Anybody know? Here is the founding father who built our company.
You know, he started as an errand boy, and he was 11, and built it into Universal, International, General, 118,000 employees, on five continents, and some around the moon.
And we have never had another chief executive officer.
And finally, finally, he goes to what is the one thing he should not do.
The small thing to do is to convert that office to typing.
nothing quite so that that makes it clear there are two we are no longer in
this we find a able to use between downgrade and offered so down we can
offer as a big brand but we can't use them anymore
they've lost a very important cost but still convert that big corner office you
You can convert it into a museum, but don't.
You know, where the founder's portrait is there,
and the curtains are always drawn.
And if you do that, then make sure you put in a light switch
that doesn't work, so that nobody can go in.
Otherwise, they start worshiping.
Yes, sir?
What's the advice if the sun takes over?
For those who work there, the best advice
is usually to find another job.
I'm not joking.
Let me say, the sons of powerful fathers have been buried,
so the expectations on them are great, from below and from above.
And occasionally they're made. Tom Watson at IBM made.
The other one, this author, the younger son,
was a much finer and much abler person,
but it was exactly his kind of gentleness that defeated him.
Jan Tau was a very robust, very robust, fundamentally very coarse person.
Very, very coarse.
He had the necessary toughness to resist the demand.
And the younger one, you know, kept this and this under pressure.
You need to be like your father or not to be like your father.
Either one was wrong.
You are like the old man, but you are just an indication.
And if you're not like him, everybody says, well, he isn't his father.
father. Very little. Very little. Very hard. And can be done, you see, with the help of an
escort. The Dutch Phillips Company. Anton Phillips who started it, Uncle Anton, who died just at the
beginning of World War II. His son and two sons and a son-in-law. You see, just one son-in-law
stayed in Holland under the Nazis until he came out and they pushed, they moved heaven.
Before that, in anticipation, they established a holding company in the Dutch Amphibian Hills in Duracell, what have you.
And so they ran the non-European out of New York.
But then they came back to Antwerpen. There was enough of a hiatus.
And the old man whom I knew quite well, Lord Anson, was incredibly powerful.
And the younger generation was capable, but totally different people.
that wasn't enough for the hiatus, but let me say the son-in-law who had run the Dutch and
German companies under the Nazis, even though he was a great hero of the resistance left, he knew
that he couldn't do it. And the two, Fritz and his brother-in-law, who came back to go,
I've been out for five years, it will break, run a totally different business and take him back and
his work if she had taken over from the old man directly I think would have been
very different simply because the old man was a powerhouse and everybody would
have put pressure on the younger men they're both retired now either to be
like him and that one can't be somebody else or to break with them and that's
very hard to do for it. If you admired and respected your father, had reason to.
So it's not the reason. Don't envy the son who has to take over from a very powerful father.
If you run a business and have children, will you please be bright enough to let
them start elsewhere. That fellow who is a powerful father and the son comes in
and has owned his career in the fraternal company, he will never really believe that
he owes his career to his own talent, and he's right. And if he had worked elsewhere
and has, then everybody sees the who some years. And he has not made a great career,
but he has proven his ability to get the job and hold it. He'll have a very different kind of self-confidence.
It is not in this day and age where we do not believe in families and where alimony is thicker than water and not blood.
In this day and age it is not a sound idea for us to have a son who is, to have a family company of this kind.
But the root family companies are very simple and very straight.
but for you and if you have a son who doesn't know them or doesn't abide for them it's a good idea to
get out but to go so think through the assignment you don't uh then you're asking and if you find
that you can't think through the assignments because it turns out the missionaries are
totally confused or very controversial then realize that you put in a soft cap whether you
do it officially or not and then you have to go to work on it but realize that no matter
whom you put anything almost unlikely that you will succeed because you put him into the middle
of it and with large disputes and and understood uh but here the assignment was probably quite
clear you understood the mission the assignment was not so true they looked for the best young
museum director you know whenever you look for you see the uh i read in the paper that dr conan
just died president of harvard and high commissioner in germany and so on uh and tells
a very nice story about it was a very remarkable president human came back and when he left in 52
wherever he went you know he went to germany in 48 or what have you uh he left and then for 10
He refused.
Small things to do.
Then he came back and sat down with, that was McGeorge Bundy at that time, then became
Mr. Johnson for an affairs advisor.
And was Dean at Harvard.
And said to whom Cohen had hired and given his first job, and said, sir, Mac, what's
the policy?
And Bundy said, we are building the greatest university, Dr. Cohen, there ever was.
In every field, we are looking for the best man, and then we hire him.
no matter what he taught. And Conan said, I'll give you ten years before you have
destroyed Harvard. That was proof. One doesn't look for the best. One looks for the right
man or woman. Good for what? That depends on the assignment, you know. And if you run
a university art museum that is part of your undergraduate teaching and you are not looking
for the showman of your museum you can make it a com something that's on the front page of
the los angeles times twice a week you see your support institutions don't belong on the front
something. Support should be invisible. How many of you, when you have ever bought a theater
ticket because of the reputation of the prompter? Not even the stage designer. When the stage
designer becomes the hero, you get horrible, because he then always designs things that
other singers can't do. I went to a fabulous, very interesting performance, very interesting,
for the photo uh then to have it on the los angeles front page is an indication that it's
malfunction not something to congratulate yourself about and so all right you're fixed you didn't
think through the assignment but also they didn't give guidance you better go to the a new appointee
who had a different job found that they said tenable one and the plausible one and in any
of him no matter what you do otherwise in staffing this job or any job keep those things in mind
if you don't keep them in mind you're going to end up in trouble let me say that most of you
in this room spend i don't know 70 percent of your time bailing out your poor people decisions
That is the prevalent occupation of executives.
And it's unnecessary.
Sure, one cannot make people's decisions
with anything approaching 100% batting average.
But one can bring it up to 0.8, not because I say so,
but because the people who make them right
have said batting average.
Some of you have probably heard me say that,
because I tried to say that as often as I can.
The greatest chronic management story or education story I know
is General George Marshall as Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army.
When we went into World War II, every general officer in the U.S. Army
was way overage, including Marshall,
who only made Chief of Staff nine days before the day
on which otherwise he would have had to retire.
before his 59th birthday, and he was the boy wonder of Officer Coy.
The next General Officer, General Drum, was exactly 10 years older, and MacArthur was
69, 70, going on 70, these are the younger ones, because don't forget from 1918 to 1938,
Nobody was ever promoted.
And most of the general officers, even the five-star officers of the world, didn't make
first lieutenant until 1936.
George Patton made first lieutenant in 1936.
Eisenhower made captain in 1936.
Somerville was a first lieutenant in 1935, a captain in 1935, was the oldest of them.
Arnold was a captain in the Air Force and through his path was a 6th Lieutenant in 1935.
And not one of them had commanded troops for the very simple reason that there were no
troops to command.
The total strength of the U.S. Army, including the Army Air Corps, in 1938 was 128,000 men.
And we had 2,040 million men in Army and Air Force at the end of World War II, the Navy and another few.
You talk of the growth of IBM, but this is a phenomenon.
Nonsense compared to that one.
There was barely a single, there were quite a few people who were relieved of command
and put into another one and said, it turned out all right.
But very few did.
Very amazing, very few.
And that is one of the very great managerial achievements.
There's nothing like it in all organizations of history.
Anybody know how many general offices we had when we came out of World War II?
Almost 4,000. Almost no judges.
Let's go down to Brigadier.
You know, this isn't going down quite that far.
4,000, 3,940, including airports.
Practically enough, not one of them had even, or even a teacher's office in 19...
And not one, and nobody had commanded anything.
There was nothing to command.
And almost no failure.
And that's a very remarkable achievement.
And one looks at, let me say, don't ever look at other people's mistakes.
One of my, the few wise men I met in my life,
Vassa had in London, 25 years ago, said the good Lord has so created the human race that every one of us
can make every conceivable mistake on his own.
Doesn't have to learn from other people.
One learns from other people. And what do the marshals have for Sloan? Not quite that spectacular,
but that's good, and they're much smaller. See, I see it.
What the gentleman says, what do the marshals do that the likes of us do and not do?
And what do they not do that the likes of us do?
And first they take their people decisions seriously.
They know that they are the controlling system.
All of you here, enough to be fact, have the real control of an organization.
Partly because they are soulless.
Partly because people, you see, the behaviorists,
You see, that animals, organisms tend to behave as they are being.
Now that's fine, but for human beings it is quite true.
Human beings tend to behave as they see other human beings.
There's no record of one of Skinner's pigeons looking over his shoulder
to see what rewards the other pigeon.
But every one of you does it, all the time.
And incidentally, it's one of the things that good doctor Skinner doesn't know.
know doesn't understand one of his meetings reward system operates in a vacuum he is not looking
realize that blah reward a vaccine whereas every human wants to pay us his reward everybody else
and so people tend to behave as they are being the most visible reward of promotional and they
signal to the entire group this is what management really wants and especially to support it
One of you know the old jingle that the higher up the monkey goes, the more of his behind he shows?
Yes, that was written about the moon, but believe me, it has much wider application.
Everyone can kill, one can calm the superior. It is amazing how long one can fool a boss.
And all of you are experts, but one cannot fool. How long does it take? You know, four weeks maximum.
Until the dumbest knows that he's working for their office.
You agree?
And then management puts that, takes that for their office.
The folks in the game have never done a goddamn thing
except go to an advanced management.
And gives him a big promotion, and everybody says that.
It doesn't take.
Secondly, if you make them wrong,
they are very hard to end.
All of you in this room suffer with at least three per person, subordinates who are not
performing.
You're all going to get rid of them, probably.
So that is my own right to get him out of that job and my state manager.
Whom do I put in?
The answer is get rid of him.
And all of you.
Or you know, he isn't really that bad.
Or I can still, if I keep an eye on him, he can still function, which is simply saying
I do his work.
Partly.
because you don't like to think you were wrong, and so you spend your time cleaning up after
him or her.
It's a most horrible waste of time.
But also your promotions essentially establish your value, your personality, are the most
visible things you can do.
Nothing is as visible.
Here some of you are in top management of companies, very small, even key subordinates
can't figure out what you are really deciding.
As they see you people, they say, you're very large.
And here is Jim, and Jim goes home to his wife,
and Jane says, what happened at the office?
And Jim says, nothing, except to meet Tom Murphy,
director of marketing.
Tom Murphy, that's a jerk you make, isn't it?
He said, yeah, he's even worse than you think.
That's all.
You know, and Jane says,
Jane has lost all respect for the boss.
don't believe that Jim's attitude doesn't reflect Jane's attitude as well.
But Jim too has lost respect. Here, it's Tom and Tom Murphy that managed to get this disaster.
And now, in all he has been doing as assistant market research manager for the last 10 years,
he's losing it. Whatever gets into his office is gone, or he's probably the best man around
to apply highly advanced techniques to totally meaningless people.
You all know the type, don't you?
And then you're making your extra market research.
Oh, God. And you've lost respect.
So your people decisions are the ultimate control.
And all the organizations have to report
or any military service have to learn that.
that's why you have a select belly for days over what because you also know something very
important that you don't know one does not pick top management we're not fixed up management
but fixed up management from a fixed middleman here you appoint that director of market research
in aerojet how many employees you know i have 15 000 there are aerojet people you do have some
of it. You must have someone with you. How many do we have in the division alone?
Oh, am I? They're all people.
What about the corporation? Not a very big company, but still sizable. And compared to
GE or the Air Force, which we have in this room, the Air Force is a little larger. And
So, in the Marine Corps, you know, a small military service tends to be a little larger.
So, but you put somebody in there, an upper-middle manager, in the first place, he or she is
managing.
See, here is the president of Aerojet, you know, you have such a functionary, don't you?
Have you ever seen him?
Yeah.
Many times.
Anybody else ever seen him?
Yeah.
In the days when I was still doing kind of consulting where I visited clients, I was
always take me to a plant. It's part of the ritual. And I would go through the plant with the chief
executive officer, and he would tell me that he knows everybody in the plant. He started in it.
And he would go through and stop about halfway down and say, hi, Tom. And Tom would say,
good morning, Mr. Smith. Now, in the first place, here was the big boss. Tom was still there,
you know, had been a machinist when the big boss ran this freight line.
And he wasn't going to say to the big boss,
look, my name ain't Tom.
And when the big boss said that I was a white student,
he wouldn't say, but I'm a homosexual.
And then the big boss knew five Tom's in the plant of 800 people or 1,400 people.
And when that being said, he knew everybody.
And that's a harmless conceit if you don't act for it.
That is totally harmless. It doesn't do any harm.
The funny thing is that Tom, whose name is really Bob,
and who has no wife and children but is a homosexual, is flattered.
He hasn't got my name right and so on,
but at least he still recognizes my face.
He's quite flattered. It doesn't do any harm.
That's a little good, but you don't know anymore.
Just for the other 1,995 people in the town, they don't even know the boss has been through
this.
They couldn't hear it.
And look, and here is the superintendent of the spray line, and maybe in the spray line
the superintendent knows that the big boss is interested because he was superintendent
of the spray line, and so anybody who runs the spray line, the boss keeps an eye on him.
You don't do that.
But the fellow next door, you know, he knows that his salary and his bonus and his promotion
doesn't depend on the executive VP, it depends on the assistant plan manager.
And when the assistant plan manager comes in with a list of bonuses and promotions,
the executive VP isn't going to say, why isn't Tom Smith on that list?
So he knows perfectly well, all right, it is not a good idea to get into the bad books
of the executive VP who goes through the plans every day, so when you see him come in, you
have to be in your office and don't speak your nose out.
But that's all.
It is that assistant plan manager, the plan manager who is managing.
And the old rule of the military, that the first duty of a general is to make sure the
group have conflict and all that goes back to Alexander the Great, is it's very sound
rule. Because that battalion commander is the officer corps. The regimental commander
is already very far away, you know, you only get to see him when you're in serious trouble.
And the division commander is something in stars and stripes, and that's all he is.
And all right, he tries to be chummy and he tries to know the men, which means that two
weeks before he makes a surprise visit, his aide calls up and says, the general is going
to come and sample the dinner menu on Thursday the 24th on a surprise, unexpected visit.
An aide who doesn't do that won't last long.
It's a function of an aide to make sure.
That's what you have an aide for.
Otherwise, he doesn't do anything anyhow.
But he's a buffer.
And an experienced commander still sees a lot of us.
But he's still...
All right, he's round enough to bore out somebody,
but that's it.
And so your people, they're very far out of control.
That's why the military there at the end of the 19th century
to have the selection board, the British Invention.
And that is most, it takes the most time on the lieutenant colonel, colonel level.
Because at that level, you know, you pick one and you say no to 25.
and so you say no to 25 who will never make general officer.
Because if you don't make colonel, you won't think you'll make general officer, except in Paraguay.
And then only once every 25 years.
In the rest of the world, you have to make colonel.
You are not, having been passed over twice for promotion into lieutenant colonel,
you aren't going to get your first star, I can tell you that, and rightly so.
And so you pass over 25, basically, or 18, whom you eliminate from top management when you pick one to be a chairman.
And the same is true of the director of market research over that.
Here you have got 18 sales managers and one regional one.
and so you eliminate 17 and the point one and in fact you have eliminated 17
from over getting to the general sales manager basically not totally but maybe a few are young
enough to get a second chance but most of them are not but those are your controls so take them a
a little more serious and spend time and then learn from the effective ones that one starts
with the assignment, one never starts with a first one. That can last. Try to think through
the assignment and then you know you are likely to not to make the mistake of reaching for
the best museum or best of the young museum you are. And maybe you see, you know, and
really think through. Then you don't reach for young. Let me, here we have built this
executive program very fast. We don't know today where it's going to go. It's a great
success, but we have, but in five years from now we'll know. Is it going to be twice the
size, three times the size, the present size, smaller? You see, this is not the time to
reach for the best of the young. This is the time to reach for really first day order people,
Preferably today, people from Boston in the 60s, I would imagine you can get almost anybody just now.
Well, you have no, well, first of all, you have a name, you have a reputation, and you are not going to be permanent afflictions.
Under whom you can build, but keep the options open.
So maybe in this art museum we can today really define the assignment.
We know we can't, and like this we can keep on the way we have been going, and we don't
even want to open up that pipe within the university community over the function of
the museum until we know how we can fund it.
And we don't know.
Miss Kirchhoff funded it her own way.
She had her friends and alumni.
very often can't keep on that way. Now we have to fend. As long as she was there, she always, you know,
my grandmother called it mad money. She always had some mad money stashed away between her breasts
that my grandmother had. And so, she's somehow mad. She can't do it anymore. It's too big.
It's no longer a personal property as it was in the 80s.
Those things she could do without me getting into trouble.
A big university can't do.
So the funding, you may have to face up to a funding problem.
Until you have solved that, you can't really
know what the point is in defining a mission
if you cannot possibly support it.
But also, here is the graduate faculty,
one hand, that here's the art faculty, and here's the undergraduates, and you're in the midst of uncertainties
which you cannot, but it isn't worthwhile. These are big fights, and they're not fights about the art museum,
they're fights about the university. So you postpone, but maintain the integrity of the institution,
and then you would pick somebody very different. And that's part of thinking through the assignment,
And only when you understand, what are you really looking for?
This time, you can't look for the next maybe three years.
That's already a long time.
And maybe, as Seth Radamata pointed out as he went down to dinner,
ah, two or three years from now, this person will only begin to change the job in such a way
that the person himself has to change.
That's what you hope.
I always hope that one picks somebody who changes the job so that he himself has to become a bigger person.
But that's hope. It may not work.
Then one thinks of names.
And I said names, not names.
One thinks of three or four names.
And then one thinks, then go carefully.
And then one looks at this.
And the final step, let me say, is to check your judgment.
One person's judgement about another human being is not given to us to decide, you know.
In fact, it is probably not even given to us to see inside ourselves.
We are a black box, and a sort of psychotherapy is to be claimed that they can find the key to this.
But they won't accept the fact that we are a black box.
Ah, those who are advanced in history are a great many disciples.
to find, because at this world, at this end plane, there is a way to find the key.
But so is also the Jesuit regimen in self-examination, or the Chaldean in self-examination.
There are no ways of finding the key to the black box.
And they may differ in methodology from, let's say, psychoanalysis,
but not, basically, they are the same psychodynamic purpose,
all based on the assumption that we cannot even look into ourselves
that it needs special discipline, special training, special methods, and a lot of time
to look inside. And some of us skeptics are very dubious whether any of these methods
really work. The evidence is not overpowering. But surely you don't look into anything.
And, you see, the only one who looks into another person is a novelist. And every first
novelist has had it happen to him that his characters get out of control because he no
longer understands them. There is that very important story. You know Charles Dickens
died very young and everybody, about 59, and everybody had previously said to Oberweber,
did it quickly, except the young woman who lived with him, the young actress, who said
no. I knew that he was dying. He died of a heart attack. When he stopped working on the
working on The Mystery of Edinburgh,
I took a selfie.
The creature, it has outgrown.
If you read The Mystery of Edinburgh,
it's the last novel and it's a very powerful thing.
It is very clear that this was going,
running away, torn away,
and where it's going, speculating everything
inside this little globe,
where it was going to go,
it was very clear that it was going to go,
it was running away.
And that has been too powerful
to create the whole legend of the Lord,
creation that then this young girl like her
meeting Baba Yaga, Baba Yaga finally could die.
