Are we ready yet? Remember we decided that we will do Banca Americana until numero tres today, in Spanish by the way, and then the second after dinner we'll go back and finish up the Art Museum, but we kind of got tired of the Art Museum change of pace.
Who wants to start with Bank of America until number three and tell me who has been to something similar by the way?
Anybody? Is that something you haven't encountered? No?
One of the things American businesses and American institutions don't usually do, and in the rest of the world, it's standard.
If you have a hotel chain in London and you go into the laundry business before somebody
comes in to wash your sheets, you sit it up as a separate laundry which tries to become
the leading laundry business, institution laundry business in your country.
And if you have a hotel chain in Great Britain and you bake your own rolls and bread and
bread and cakes, you become the leading critic,
because the only one who has been,
only two American companies who have somewhat similar,
but a different approach,
that you see, there are tax and SEC reasons
why we don't follow their logic,
but we are miners, okay?
We are usually dedicated to
the kind of empire business approach,
But the Ford Motor Company used to have a policy that it would make a percent of the costs that go into the car and no more by 80, but make 20 to have control, and therefore quality control.
GM has the opposite. Every accessory division in GM has to sell at least half its output competitively outside of GM.
Keep it honest.
The 84 flood realized that most of the things, and if you have Chrysler cars, most of the Chrysler accessories you buy are made by GM.
It's almost a supplier by preference.
So there you have one American corporation, a big one, that has been going a very similar
route.
Sears, let me say, is not too far.
Who is Sears' largest supplier?
The U.S.
Whirlpool.
All the old appliances are now increasingly not only kitchen appliances, but living room
appliances, too.
And Whirlpool, from the beginning of its foundation, was right after World War II.
is quite deliberately appliance supplier decided afterwards to make it air major and independent
company both the rca the banks of the rca appliance business in a dealer system and work
with is by far the largest american appliance producer where is about just about exactly
a little more than 50 percent sold under the whirlpool brand direct and a little less than 50
percent sold under the sears brand 10 more and so on through sears now sears no longer owns
world food the vegetables have sold off so the public began owning good chunks because they
folded into work for the kitchen range companies they own and the air conditioner and so on
But, by and large, the relationship is no longer an ownership one.
But it's just as close as ever.
Basically, all the WorkPool management, other than the fact that people come out of Sears,
one of the good career ladders for Sears executives,
and WorkPool is now about a $4 billion business, or something set over the five binomials more.
so this isn't totally unknown but it has none of the popularity this kind of setting up a supplier
outside it is predictable that it will become more popular but i will see very soon what's the
problem all about conflict is there conflict independent you wouldn't have sex now wait a
Those GM accessory divisions are not independent.
Who owns the GM 100%?
They sell 60% of their output outside of GM.
It's only when it became a bank that's competitive that there was a problem.
Then there was none.
What is the problem with who owns?
Am I doing data processing for a competitor?
Do I interfere with anything?
Well, this goes directly to you and me.
the biggest market, and I'm sure it's the answer market.
But it's still automobile.
Look, who else is going to put...
What else are you going to do with an engine block?
That's right.
A few people put up...
My secretary, let's say,
just put up a remodel
for a house in the garden.
She put in... Her husband is an engineer.
They put an old engine block
as a piece of sculpture into the front door.
So there is a limited market.
But how many do you think you're going to sell that way?
What else do you do with a spark plug except putting it in an automotive engine?
So what I don't quite get is the fact of the relevance of PM's automobile accessory division
making automobile accessories, which then have to go into a car.
Spark plugs by themselves have very limited utility.
Well, if they can do that, why can't banks serve more than one bank?
Why can't they? They do here.
that's not the problem the fact that any banker in this house do we have any banker here ever
had a correspondent then what's the correspondent back that's where uh you have a friend in the
business what is what what bank are you with western bancorp you know what you may be are
you do you have any correspondence then many what do you do for them supply various services
such as transfer of funds uh loan participation check clearing check clearing this here here is
any large bank has a very very eager buying customers clients smaller banks banks that
are not in central reserve cities such as los angeles or san francisco but in fresno
to some who need services, they can't afford. How many data processing are you willing to sell to banks?
Well, Western Bancorp is a multi-state bank holding company. We have 22 affiliates.
No, but no correspondent banks. You willing to sell data processing, sir?
Certainly.
You're probably not doing very well, but that's another matter. Anybody know who's doing very well?
What?
Bank of America is doing very good.
It's the biggest data processing business in the world, do you know?
To which you subscribe the way you would subscribe to any other time-sharing business.
This isn't a time-sharing as much as it is a program-sharing business.
50 Corp developed their programs for money transfers, cash flow, check clearing,
float management, what the hell have you.
I'm not a commercial banker.
Not just for anybody who is willing to pay the price.
Any problems?
You might see that you have problems with data processing anyhow.
Problems of privacy.
There's a very big problem of fraud.
We don't know the extent of it.
It may be very substantial.
Because it's fairly easy to get in.
And occasionally something surfaces against equity funding or a few other things, but we don't understand, but all the computers, manufacturers and designers are very concerned with how one really got access and spend a great deal of money trying to find out which.
But these are problems which any, the big bank and the smaller bank that is the customer for data processing services have in common.
They share that problem. They are not competitive.
What is the case, what is the concern?
Sure, that's the way they look at it.
What is the problem?
It's a business, a subsidiary, that's been set up to make a profit,
and now the management is trying to cut back on the making of the possibility.
Oh, I see.
They don't want to look at the competitors.
Some lawyers are the true ones.
Yes, sir.
But is that the problem in good manners?
Look, except one thing is a fact,
that when you have to worry about manners,
There is something very wrong in the structure.
If people get upset before somebody didn't follow the proper channels,
it's not good news.
The fact that people then get excited about,
he didn't ask permission if he should have.
You don't know whether he should have.
Nothing in here that tells you.
Only I know that was his prison
and he had full authority to accept customers and to set his own rates and what have you,
he didn't violate anything.
But also, if one doesn't, you have to.
And believe me, manners are terribly important.
Manners are the lubricant of any organization.
Don't let people get away with bad manners.
Don't accept the prevailing delusion of the young
that to say good morning is not being candid.
To say good morning is nothing to do with how you have to do with
how you want the other person when he needs you.
And so one insists on people saying good morning,
and one never, never, never, never economizes on lubricating oil.
Rule number one, no matter how high the Arab push oil prices,
lubricating oil is still cheap, and one never economizes on lubricating oil.
Always if you can solve a problem by lubrication, it's actually cheap.
And so one insists on good manners.
But I don't believe there are people getting excited about formality.
And that the formality is the real problem.
The real problem is something more underlying.
You just have a symptom.
why people shrug it off yes we think today yes cs doesn't own any work today and assume that
kmart comes to world food and wants work for it to deliver ice boxes to kmart what would see his
reaction. They say legally, do you know what their reaction would be? Have to be? What?
No reaction legally. None whatever legally in this country. Today, what would their actual
reaction be? What would their work with management reaction be? No, we've got to protect Earth
first. You mean that Sears is more dependent on us than we are on Sears? Perhaps.
I can assure you there wouldn't be no need for surreptitiousness.
I can assure you the world would not need the down receipts to say no.
No, they wouldn't do anything. They would say no.
Why? They are afraid of offending the largest customer,
maybe not even losing, offending.
Direct competition, or they may under...
One always has to think through the situation.
If this were the bottom of a recession, and Whirlpool would be 60% empty, and losing money hand over fist,
having to lay off people, and in danger of insolvency, they would probably welcome any order.
And Sears would not only not be offended, but would heave a sigh of relief,
simply because Sears is dependent on Whirlpool, and sending a depression,
I think that will be very warmly overseen.
On the other hand, in today's market, the plant business is booming.
Sears will probably not be terribly amused, though so-and-so is trying to put the squeeze on us.
The next time we come, you're going to be told that Kmart pays 18 cents more for that gasket.
And also we pay for the design and the Kmart people get the free ride.
And anyhow, it comes a little close to kind of corporate swinging.
And they can't hear you.
It's a direct head-on competitor in the same shopping center.
Well, how can they prevent Kmart from doing it?
You know, Kmart is offering it.
You see, there's people that see it.
There might be people that see it and say, you know, wait a minute.
Kmart's going to get it someplace.
place and it's lowering the cost base for our stuff but the first reaction
would be of being offended not on any rational simply because here is a
member of the family compacting with the common enemy is not a very rational the
second reaction might well be that well maybe this isn't bad Kmart gets it
anyhow there's no way we can prevent Kmart from carrying appliances there are lots of
people who are still in the plant. You think that American motors, which had but still has a huge
big culminator plant, even though it's out of the culminator business, is terribly unhappy to get a
little work. Or Westinghouse, well Westinghouse is locked, converted, but Westinghouse has those big
Canadian plants and plant plants, a very complex legal structure under which it can't produce in
Canada under the Westinghouse name. Here are the big Canadian plants. You don't think Westinghouse
would be quite willing to make it for Kmart, and Kmart gets this stuff, you know. Kmart is a very
lively appliance competitor to Australia. We see it's a totally non-national reaction,
but you can be sure it's going to be there. And no ownership has nothing to do with it. In this
case is pure retirement to do with the relationship. What are the alternatives?
What alternatives are available for doing this kind of work?
Continue like they are right now?
Well, how are they right now?
Well, right now they are doing business.
In other words, consider it a business and optimize the business.
That's not continuing really the way they are, that's the way they've become.
Optimize the business. Alternative one.
What's alternative two? Yes?
in other words serve everybody except other banks limit the service to other banks
all right put it down and do what with it and they control it anyhow forget that now
that's irrelevant that's a matter of what the name on the door how much does it cost to get
the name on the door change 85 cents a little more today but no the name of the door is 85
dollars all right that's the extent one doesn't worry about it that's petty cash
but what what did you have what's the alternative for for running the business not with pretending
what were you trying to tell us let the turf the bank only any other alternative and not have it
serve us at home so what then we then we would have to do something about ourselves what then
that we could buy from a service company?
No, that's not.
That's an ownership act.
You will or don't you continue to buy from them?
And build your own.
Alternative one is optimize data processing as a business.
And then you don't put any restraints on
unless you don't put them on.
If you do that, can you treat any customer
different from any other?
Why not?
Because why not?
What?
I can't hear you.
That would not apply, even if you are in this country, you can take customers differentially.
Depends on what it is.
Why couldn't you do it?
Because on what it is you are selling.
You can very easily have a contract, in fact everybody has it.
Here is the natural gas contract, which I'm sure the Claremont Colleges have,
which gives the natural gas companies their right to discriminate against the colleges in the event
of a gas shortage because they are an industrial customer maybe beyond but if we were uh residential
customers get projects that don't stay close to that uh any interruption of service the idea is
that it may be the wrong idea and the rest of the world it would be considered the wrong way
the rest of the world said jobs come first comfort comes second we don't anymore we may have to come
back to it we used to but you know a lot of battles you have today are being forced because
public utilities in particular worked out preference schedules which made sense
to the public worries of 30 and 40 years ago in which jobs came first uh fear of employment was
great and in which you therefore made breaks in such a way as to encourage your industrial users
simply because industry locates very heavily on the basis of energy costs anybody ever hear that
anybody know why energy costs are important in the location of industry because there's
amongst very few costs that can be determined it's not that energy is such a big part of the
total there's a fairly small one but energy costs can be determined with great accuracy most other
costs are very hard most in most other areas it's very hard to taxes and energy and freight costs
which together are perhaps a third of typically manufacturing most are however very clear
and defined and you can actually count them and most other costs are very vague and hard
and difficult so the industrial location decisions are being made quite rightly on the basis of the
cost element you can actually measure and predict by the way because they are usually long-range
contract or another or long-range trends and so energy costs play a very heavy role in differential
costs and you may see the fact that new england energy costs are one third higher than those of
the middle east midwest central eastern states kentucky tennessee and so uh but considering
that for most manufacturing processes your total energy costs are eight percent so you're talking
of a two percent cost differential that should really not play much of the role and you are wrong
not because it's so visible and it's so tangible and also you have long-range contracts
because constant element you can lay down and in the past get preferential treatment
on the rate in which certain customers got rates partly where where it's preferential rate making
not only permitted but necessary do you know anybody know enough pricing where you have a
problem of pink road to average where you have to maintain a capacity and pay full costs no matter
what the demand is and where the normal course of events let's say over a year your main demand
fluctuates a great deal then it makes abundance and to price in such a way that on the one hand
you get less for what fills capacities as empty on the other hand you can postpone satisfaction
of that capacity you you can and then you your robinson patman or other discrimination do not
apply but they don't say that you cannot treat customers differentially what does the law say
do you know you cannot treat customers differentially unless you can prove differential
costs in services you cannot give a customer a price advantage that is not equalized by a cost
now where the line goes it used to be that our law was satisfied that if you have a book they
take my last big book of mine we now broke our Gotham mix to convert it into a poor textbook
ten years ago the publisher would have I think that cover you have is yellow is little red or
whatever it is, but it's red. Buddy would have put the yellow one on and would have
called it a textbook edition. The only thing different was that Ante would have sold it at
about 30 percent less, 40 percent less, and his justification would have been that we
sell a textbook, you sell 500 copies, you know, at a stroke, and you have much lower
distribution costs. The only problem is when they went then into court with that
argument and produce the cost that turned out to be a higher distribution cost, so they
lost that case. But they themselves did. They always assumed if you sell 500 copies as against
one, you must have lower distribution costs. And the discount is lower to the college store,
but the pill price rate is so high. And to see the selling point. Effort is so great,
You have to visit professors, leave copies, go and brief an adoption meeting.
You spend an unbelievable amount of savings hours on it.
So that when you actually cost it, when you actually cost it without,
it turned out that they had no argument.
But that's not because they couldn't price differentially.
Because they could not prove that it cost differentially.
They may have been very inept in the choice of their accountants and other matters.
So, there is differential pricing, and where you have that peak load, and also then there's
differential shift.
But let me say, I am a bakery, can you imagine that?
I run a bakery, and I sell to the supermarket.
And I also have a contract with whoever has the feeding contract here at the College of
and supply them with bakery products and my contract provides that I can if need
be provide them a daily can you imagine this contract provides that I would
normally provide them every day but if I have any delivery problem now
Washington's first day yesterday my plant my bakeries were closed such and I have
had to pay or they weren't closed I had to pay double time or triple time so
So instead of having six bakers running, I've only three running, and that's supply to supermarkets,
and I will not supply the Claremont Colleges, and UCLA, and all the hospitals.
Can you imagine such a contract?
It's standard in the bakery business.
I have to give a week's notice, and then simply because you can't sell oat bread in a supermarket,
but the CMC kids don't know the difference.
Nobody knows the difference, basically.
doesn't spoil and if you're toasted anyhow as most of us do because otherwise it has
the consistency of sponge rubber uh you know it doesn't go stays that fast a week is
but two days no and yet supermarkets won't touch it uh and cafeterias and restaurants and hospitals
and even restaurants don't care great not every day and that was money to the
bakery not much simply because there is no real agent you get bread in real time
how about it how about telephone service would you do it see let's think about
Could you do it? Now it was done. It was fairly, fairly common at one time. What eliminated it was the, a technical invention, the party line.
No one thinks that the party line, if I tell you you are wrong, party line needs some, you would consider them fairly simple gadgets, but still gadgets.
otherwise you get can only have said old-fashioned rural one where everybody
could listen into everybody is now the party line as it was developed I think
it's the Siemens the German pattern in the 20s we where you share the line but
if somebody else often it you will not you didn't get a diet or didn't get
central operator and you couldn't listen your telephone but closed out which is
still prevalent in Europe very common and in Japan which for most presidential
customers is perfectly adequate unless you happen to have somebody on the
party that has got three teenagers in the family then you're in trouble but
and then the constant you can't too many complaints is the struggle design for
For most residential people who make four or five telephone calls a day, that's us.
And so, but before that, you had a very common system, that residential customers got service
when the central exchange was not busy, and during the peak hours, when the professionals
and the businesses used it, well, you had to wait, or you may not have been able to
get it for an hour or two and you've got low residential rates and you could in effect handle
far more subscribers uh with not too much inconvenience all right there were always
the complaints of the emergency but emergencies are rather rare and by and large most subscribers
were perfectly satisfied though when they had it but then whenever they had a chance they upgraded
it's a full nine but the building telephone station is very expensive and it was far more
expensive 50 years ago because the cost the capital cost is an indirect indirectly proportionate to
the density of the system when a hundred percent of the households have telephones that they have
in this country it costs you a fraction of what it cost you when only every 10
or 20 percent had it when in other words you have to string wires build amplifiers
and boosters and only serve and how the top of that lots of rural neighbors
houses went close together so that that is capital cost for much greater than
and are proportionate and then it made a great deal of sense to price preferentially for a
service that at that time for the customer was a luxury and marginal not for the doctor
not for the business they had to have it in the 20s but for the ordinary private household
who have the choice between having no telephone or getting minimal service at a minimal rate
and accepting that it would only be given on an if and when available basis once today where the
telephone is their prime medium of communication as far as with the post office that would not work
today you have to have it in real time and you scream if you have to wait tenderly for the
diatom don't you and rightly so so let me see the question is not whether you can give second class
services sure you can why not if you price accordingly you cannot probably if you follow
lady here and say banks don't get the full range services what you say then you can't price the
same way and that's probably awkward but probably is and rather not do it you know but you could do
it. But it depends on what the service means to the customer. If you're a bank, can you have your
data processing done on an if and when available or selective basis? What do you think? I mean,
that's very much like saying my right leg works only on Saturday afternoon. Maybe then you're
better off with the prosthesis. Once you have it, you put your data on any kind of a program basis,
your business can't run without it. You have to have it in real time. Sorry we are busy today,
you'll get your checks cleared a week from today. All right, if you have a blizzard such as Boston
just now had nobody got checks cleared for a couple of almost 10 days because nothing could
move the checks the problem wasn't that the clearing system didn't work but the checks
were out in the branch banks and the trucks didn't run and you couldn't get them into the federal
reserve bank of course but yeah but on the other hand customers also couldn't get to the branches
didn't withdraw for about a week, nothing more. And you couldn't open any office because
no employee could get to you for about a week. A few hardy cross-country skiers skied on
the ropes of the cars, along the banks of the Charles, but they didn't need more for
fun than to go to work, you know. Very few, I think, maybe. Almost five days. And, of
course, clearing the streets when everybody is forced to abandon his car in the middle
of the street takes time so by now the school's still on though today is the first day try to be
open two weeks later because but how often do you have a blizzard and then everybody is equally out
and everybody knows the reason why and the customer calls in and wants to know his balance
and when he said but that was my balance two weeks ago but that's the only balance we can give
But nobody can do better. And how often does it happen?
The next blizzard of this kind, the last one of this kind in Boston was 92 years ago.
Well, you know, the probability is that another 92 years and so one isn't trying to...
Actually, it was a buffalo where a blizzard like this happened twice every week in the winter and three times in leap years.
you have a totally different system. Everybody's geared to it.
Who knows a Minnesota? But Boston by the ocean doesn't get much snow usually anyhow.
One doesn't make provisions for the rarest of accidents. But data processing is not something
you can give on any basis except full service real time. So the decision you have here is
that or turn alternative let me say which surely those people in the bank would really love
that we optimize the business but how we curtail service to competitors or we don't operate the
competitors that is not available it would be very nice if you could do it but you can't
by the nature of the service you give not because of any legal conflict or any economic conflict
And don't believe what we were told, that it is illegal to treat different customers differentially.
This is not true. It is illegal to treat different customers differentially,
unless there is an economic rationale provable for it.
And the most provable one is differential costs. Significant.
But the other one, anybody know the other major one in this, in American normal is to meet competition, bona fide, anything else? I'm coming out with a new proprietary hammer that can also be used as a first aid kit and as a signal flare if I get lost in the mountain.
Okay? And I'm introducing that product in the market.
Am I entitled to play games?
You know, for how long, you know?
For how long until you say until there's competition?
Now in this particular case, I think the range of competition is perhaps remote.
But let's assume, you all think this isn't going to work.
Between you and me, I agree with you,
but I'm James Benson and I have the paternal pride
And I'm going to introduce you to the damn thing who owns all of us and does work.
Anybody here remember the clock radio?
Have you ever seen one?
Have you ever seen a clock radio?
Yes.
I can assure you that the damn thing could not have worked.
Everybody in GE knew it.
Because after all, what the hell is new about it?
And the alarm clocks, how long have we had alarm clocks?
And how long have we had radios?
That's the point.
They put together.
Who wants to be woken up?
The dancing was a runaway success, and incidentally, only because the division general manager who invented, designed, and introduced it did not ask the top management.
He knew perfectly well what their answer would have been.
And who needs an electric toothbrush or an electric carving knife?
It's the same general manager.
I have never seen the need for any of this.
In a motel, I like an alarm clock, but I don't need the radio for it.
uh but uh most motels that have an alarm clock it's a clock radio my children order so the damn
thing works how long can i just keep on introductory pricing which means i can give you a
special price here bill you have that chain of hardware stores in southern california if you
take five thousand of these i give you a thirty percent off list introductory offer i can send you
and pick the membership of this year and make a coupon deal with them contact all kinds of things
for how long no somebody complains not you mean there's no legal barrier there's no legal
whispering it's discriminatory treatment of customers you know i might even go very easy
the build layer who has those hardware stores in southern california and see i give you a year
exclusive i won't sell to anybody else not you're not a licensed franchise you agree to buy 50 000
of the johnson and in consideration on consignment you don't you don't have to take any you agree to
take them entire best offer best effort and a consideration of this i give you an 18-month
exclusive on the operator anybody else in a market area done every day perfectly perfectly
discriminatory and perfectly product introduction and there is no room this is then a rule of reason
when is the product either no longer in the introductory stage and we're sure the clock
radio is well past that stage but i'm not so sure that the electric carving knife has now
been on the market for 10 years so you could probably might still be able to order everything
it depends on if that is still something that is a specialty product and that is not
We hadn't yet found its market niche.
No, we have no time for this.
This is a matter of business.
Not a matter of whether it's proprietary
or not, it's something else.
You can't discriminate among customers
in a proprietary product either.
So it's a difficult tool,
if there is no commitment among customers.
But it has to have an economic rationale,
either a cost rationale
or an innovation rationale
or a competitive rationalist who cannot arbitrarily,
who cannot do it, to give an advantage to one customer
over another that is not justified
by economic rationality.
But let me say, that's not what we are dealing with here.
We're dealing with something far more important
than the characteristics of goods or services.
And it is very true.
