If your criteria for selection are wrong,
you better pick at random.
That's an old rule of the statistician,
known to every poker player, I speak to.
If you don't understand, you hand.
But in poker, you know the probabilities.
In many other states, you don't know poker.
It's a very finite game.
But so Tom would embrace.
If you don't understand the assignment, your chances of picking the right person are very, very small.
And your chances of getting him to understand what the assignment is are nil.
So rule one was violated. Rule two is you don't have a man in a new assignment.
Unless within a fairly short period you'll make sure that he thinks through what he has to do now
now with one certain certificate. That's what he did to get the assignment. It's the wrong
thing to do now that he has it. If it's a new job, the things that made him stand out
in the last one is always the wrong thing to do. Or it isn't a new job. Maybe just a
new title. That's how it is. Or you have given him, in order to justify a raise, you have
the job title, but nothing has happened.
It's doing exactly what it is before.
But if it's a new assignment on the head,
then what they did on the last one is, by definition,
the least likely thing to make him successful in the new one.
And so one challenges people.
And if you don't, then don't blame them if they fail.
You, in fact, let them down.
So we know in this case, personnel decisions,
People, you see, you know what the things are now.
They were grossly violent.
But before we went into this, let me say,
we talked about how one tackles things.
And one always moves from the simple to the complex.
One always starts out with the thing that requires the fewest
assumptions and the fewest changes,
and doesn't start out with having to change the unit
with additional carbon carbon.
That is not the lawyer.
So lawyers always start out by changing the unit with the
But that's what they get the biggest fees for.
But it's not a good procedural rule for getting the judge.
Procedural rule for getting fees.
And there is a difference.
So one starts out with what requires their minimum change.
What is their fewest, their least.
And if it answers it when there's not yield to intellectual curiosity,
it doesn't do complicated things.
We started out with simply saying that there was clearly violence.
There are people who think we know about knowledge.
Then we move to the organization decision.
In the organization decision, one always tests by saying,
here are the milestones.
Would any of them be materially affected by a changing structure?
In other words, you did it all.
An organization case, by definition, is one in which the outcome
is materially affected by changing organization.
Well, in this case, at least within our imagination,
we couldn't imagine change in structures that were really
able to kind of shift the problems,
but it wouldn't eliminate a single one.
In fact, it wouldn't even change that kind of thing.
Oh, sure.
There's no doubt this.
The organizational placement of the museum
hasn't been thought through.
That isn't neat.
That isn't proper.
But Ed makes no difference.
Moving it around if you want them to move, it doesn't move.
The rule's procedure is always not to do it unless you have met the rules in your head.
Well, in this case, the organization trusted all the kids.
They always moved bone and muscle around.
And for what? You aren't going to change that.
All right, that's eliminated.
It's the wrong thing. And then we moved to omission.
And we should have closed it up after deciding that this can be handled as a people problem.
And say, let's handle it the way it can be handled, the simple way.
But we tried to learn something from it, so we went on.
There is one thing that can be roughly explained.
Chance is all that if you deal with people problem right.
The other things we can not deal with.
We can forget about them, we can live with them.
It's a kind of, you know that old story about the patient with that terrible plastic form?
He's the best internist in town.
He gets off the elevator at the middle of the room at the wrong floor.
He gets into a psychoanalyst, if you know this story.
He meets his PT, who's sent him there on the street, and the doctor says,
Fred, how is that horrible diarrhea of yours?
He says, I still have it, but it doesn't bother me anymore.
This is a Q-word man, and diaphras are chiefs, we know what to do with diaphras, we know how to send underpants to the Father.
Q-word man, he functions, the rest we know how to deal with.
And so we settle that people problem in here by thinking through the assignment.
And maybe we come up that what we need isn't a museum, Chris.
We need a university. As far as museum work goes, there is none.
We don't have the museum director's problem of getting money.
We don't have the museum director's problem of the old widows in the community
whose husbands gave objects to the museum and now they think they can run it.
It's a vein of every community museum from Los Angeles,
Leave me to Raleigh-Walscott.
Communist revolution makes no difference to me.
Every museum in the world has a Mrs. Amundsen.
This is the problem of the Los Angeles County Museum.
She means well. She knows nothing.
And that's always a problem.
And her husband was the patron, and so she is chairman of the Washington Chamber of Commerce.
Everybody has the well-meaning widows who have, you know, they are busy in the museum.
Well, that museum does not.
And this museum doesn't have to worry about bringing in the proper mixture of exhibitions that are scholarly and exhibitions that are popular,
because it doesn't have to worry about attendance at the museum.
On the other hand, it has to worry about a community of students and of scholars, totally different.
It's a museum because that is the name for a building, not for a country.
And so we may end up looking, well, you can't look for Mischief anymore, it's too important,
but not for a museum, but for a university, or at least for somebody who respects the university,
know how to work through this. And that's a very different person from the most successful
of the young Hotshot museum directors who gets on the front page. They couldn't care less
but they got to get on the front page. They're not trying. You don't care too much about it.
You're not going to be forfeited anyhow, even if you're hit, sir.
Are you saying that if the right person is elected, the issue about the mission would
It will become unimportant. If it comes up, you can say, we can get to that next year.
I'm not saying that it won't come up. Of course it will come up. It's there. But you can appoint a committee to study it.
But with university committees, you don't have to worry. None of them will ever produce anything.
so you know and so and maybe that person whom you pick because you think your
time it comes back to you three months later and redefines your science and says look
we have outgrown this but you still have a bit of common understanding and what we
said we want to look at the mission not because the opposite but how does one
look at mission. Can you look at the mission of the art museum? You can't separate this
from the mission of the university. Let me see what is it seeking. The mission is not the art museum, it's the university.
That's why within the graduate council it's insolvent. When does one not pursue
quest for answering what is our business and what should it be? Do you know the one
exception and that question is the question one table. It's usually tabled for the wrong reason,
usually table because it's controversial. The only reason to raise it is that it is controversial.
You raise it precisely because good people in a common venture answer it so differently
and that gives you understanding and an appreciation of the decisions you have to make
and of the risks implicit in each decision and of the things you have to
slop off because they are no longer worth doing and have become yesterday and of the things where
let me say one of the great weaknesses of the businessman and i'm quite serious
he said he believes that a capital appropriation is a substitute for courage work and prayer
it is money is not the substitute for thinking and in those decisions one has to do a lot of thinking
and a fair amount of prayer because prayer is essentially the human way to gain courage in
uncertainty to get certitude in uncertainty it gives you that inner regret courage to do
something you know then but it's silly to have people but still there's no substitute for thought
and work and prayers and most businesses believe that the non-businesses are mature that by
allocating money you can avoid hard work the worst offenders are always the government
the government believes that putting 400 million dollars in the budget the substitutes for putting
people to money doesn't buy you hard work and incidentally if you don't know what you're
trying to do, don't put lots of people. One good person. Till you know what you are going to do,
hordes of people only fall over each other. Horrible idea that one does basic research
with lots of people. Basic research one does with one first-rate person and the back of an envelope.
And now, then you put people to work, but not till you, all right, give them a supply of envelopes.
These are affluent and wasteful times. In my days, one gave him one envelope. And in my days, also the publisher of a big city newspaper would personally come around every other Friday to hand out the pay envelope and would look at my desk.
How come your pencils are all down so much? You haven't listened that much the last two weeks you have. You actually did. But those things have changed slightly. But it's not this bad a principle.
If you see exception, one should always start out with the thinking,
at the day that I've never published it, I'm denying it.
Now, then you create.
Let me say, one creates this agreement by making outrageous propositions.
Be surprised.
But be careful if you are the boss.
You can always trust there's always going to be propositions.
Say, yay, boss, you are great.
The more outrageous the proposition.
Save it from our followers.
But be careful.
but one can always create that nobody in the organization gets even half way up
without learning how to create disagreement. Three things you learn early, how to
sabotage, everybody in this room knows, don't you? How to create disagreement and how to
confuse every issue. Everybody in this room has learned that. Or you wouldn't be in an executive
It's a business. It belongs to the freshmen. Everybody knows.
No. You see, when an institution is in a real transition to what is our business, it's premature.
You see, American University may be at a point where the questions cannot be, not that it cannot be answered, it cannot be defined.
The American University is deplorable of total success. It has attained every one of its objectives.
Started in 1859, the modern American University was succeeding the Moribund 18th century nomination of seminary or colony.
And by 1902, when the last of the great builders of American universities, Nicholas Murray Butler became president of Columbia,
the American University was essentially, in 1930, it was a success.
no greater success. And no institution that withstood the great shock of World War I,
the boom of the twenties, and the depression better than the American universities.
Every one of them made it look stronger and better and more self-confident.
Heroic test was the incredible ability to absorb the impacts of European refugees
incredible numbers, integrate them, change most of them,
empty change, right, without really being changing the rest.
Very amazing, just the vitality and strength.
The English took a lot of refugee scholars, but they couldn't use them.
Sure, they did individual work, but they had no impact on the English universities,
and Oxford and Cambridge had no impact on them.
They remained on us, yes, doing very good work
in astronomy or economics or what have you.
They did not become part of the past.
That wasn't fantastic.
But also the economic and social dislocations of the depression
only made the university stronger.
What it was by the mid-1930s was old.
It had achieved everything.
And the ferment was really beginning.
You look at the 30s and the university was blowing,
about to blow its top.
Chicago's trying to get us back to the world of St. Thomas Aquinas, which St. Thomas Aquinas
never knew.
And there was, very after this, the ones that went in for you.
You know, you can teach any subject you like, as long as you do it through field trips.
Yeah.
Everything.
Whatever it is, you do field trips.
The other extreme and everything in between, you were experimenting, you were all too young.
If you really in the 30s wanted to start a fight with any dynasty, you asked innocently what the company thought of what perfection did in Chicago.
Whether what you thought of what Conan did in Harvard where he built the world's first high quality higher education cafeteria.
Every student at Harvard, I suppose, designed his own educational hero sandwich
from a big steam table, without any guidance, whatever.
You just had so many coupons, you know, you handed in.
Otherwise, and most of them ended up eating nothing but fast food.
Kids would do that, you know.
And they ended up eating absolutely nothing but fritos.
And you could break up anything, of course.
If you did it too often, you weren't asked to come to dinner anymore.
You had to learn being there to discuss.
And husband and wife fought over progressive education.
Nobody knew what it was.
Husband and wife broke up.
Marriages broke up over it.
Higher education was the excitement.
And then came World War II and after World War II came the physical expansion and we had to reenter.
Most schools, you know, suddenly had to double every two years.
If you were a dean as I was, you were so goddamn little, trying to find bodies in front of the class.
Look, one thing you do know, that you can't get demanded without the body.
You have to take your chance on the body.
There is no guarantee that the mind will come with it,
but you know that no mind comes without it.
So you hire bodies and hope for the best.
There's no choice. Literally.
You double-double, and in some places you double-double six months.
There was a period when the three of us,
who together ran the private business school in NYU,
doubled every semester, every year.
was the expediting officer for Boeing up there in the St. Jude's Sound in 1943.
I kind of innocently asked, what about the supervision?
He said, it's very simple. The fellow who by the time their next Chicago Milwaukee plane arrives in Tacoma
already knows his way to the water cooler is Foreman.
They had no choice but to flip it every six weeks.
And then knowing you ate the water cooler, a substantial seniority.
The joke was, there were no water coolers.
That was the only problem.
Because there were orders some place, you know, that hadn't been delivered yet.
But where the water coolers were supposed to be, if and when you get them,
And so with that kind of physical, every mother of a 13-year-old boy who grows six inches a week, you know the age,
shoots like this, worries about his not being orderly and not being considerate,
tells the kid he's much too busy growing.
You grow at that rate, everything goes into muscle and nothing goes into brain.
There's only so much there.
bone and muscle he needs immediately. The brain can't wait. But you know, if it doesn't get the bone and the muscle, it puts it wrong.
There is still experience to look after. And let's not worry about direction or policy or goals or missions.
Mentally, that is absolutely something.
Whenever an institution reaches that point where it has reached its objective,
and then it begins to think about it,
the gremlins, or the imps, or whatever demons there are between the angels and the mortals,
there are some,
except for fingering,
delaying that atmosphere of false prosperity,
verity,
survival of everything seems to be what really happens.
So, when they awaken, they don't know.
We find it one of the best that we can't just embrace the cause.
Delayed and disordinated.
Bismarck, who says that the only way a rational being can explain the survival of the United States,
has said it now centennially.
Raises self-benefit.
Go back to Erdogan.
There is no university which has the immune system.
We have here.
Not.
And welcome.
On the universe there was an interdirector when one dies and retires.
Neither of which has ever suffered.
Who are they now dealing with?
On the other hand, Oxford still owns about 50 parishes in New York, which gets income from it, appoints the priest for it, but nobody considers that parish part of the university. It's an investment, that's all it is.
And so, with the American University in India, they're looking to...
But it's not necessarily a disaster of evolutionary rather than...
Transitions to Europe are made up to eat.
Transitions not disagree without anybody being able to make a decision.
I mean, one was very simple.
Go back to the foundation of the modern university, anybody know where and when?
creation of man. It's not in the first chapter of Genesis. All academicians believe, all
academicians believe that the Old Testament begins with the words, in the beginning were
the academic disciplines. But let me say, they also have a point, because the opening
statement is, in the beginning was chaos. I don't think that's what whoever wrote the
opening statement meant. No, there's no mention of the university in Genesis or in Exodus or in Kings or in any of the other.
Nor do we find the university in Confucius or in Zarathustra or any of the other early ones. Anybody know where the modern university was?
The first modern university is the University of Berlin, founded in 1808 by William von Humboldt,
Here you have one of the great philosophers, post-Kantian Kantian liberal philosophers.
And the moralists.
Prussia has been totally destroyed by Napoleon.
Not just militarily defeated, but morally defeated.
The university was founded as the nucleus of a moral regeneration of leadership.
And that is a modern university.
And while it had the old discipline,
It had a totally different function and spirit, and it was first a leadership function, which
the old one had not yet.
Nobody in the 18th century looking at it.
University of Halle in Germany, which was the creator of mathematics and philosophy,
or Göttingen, which the Elector of Hanover, who was also King of England, had founded
as his monument, was a Jesuit university.
It looks at them as elite, as leadership.
They trained professionals, provided middle management,
lawyers, ministers, teachers, not people at the top.
That was aristocracy in general, then kings and princes.
And maybe they spent three weeks at the university,
and the viewer was glad to see the last of them.
They got, you know, they had such dubious habits
of raping the girls in the neighborhood and so on,
And that was expected of university students anyhow, but they were then expected to pay,
whereas princes don't pay.
And yet you couldn't get them into jail.
They were princes.
So everybody was all too glad to see that great crown prince of Hessen-Darmstadt or what have you
move out again after four weeks as his tutor.
The whole corporation accompanied him to the city limits.
He saw it because they wanted to honor him.
The real reason was they wanted to make sure he's there.
Middle management, the lawyers, the doctors.
So the doctors are not universities, I think.
Step ministers, not the people who make the decisions.
And suddenly you're watching with the elite and prestigious
the leadership. That meant that the faculty mattered and students didn't. Students had
to come there to get the stamp of approval, you couldn't practice law, you couldn't kill
people with impunity, you couldn't get the church, but the faculty mattered, you know.
The American universities always disagreed, it didn't matter. And in the state universities,
what the Europeans always criticized, was that student math was more than fashion.
Harvard was a balance, but you went to Wisconsin, it was very clear student math.
So you had a type that looked to learning rather than teaching in D.C.
But we still have remnants of the old one.
Our emphasis on publishing, the University of Berlin,
because the community leadership function is through the books you publish,
But also from the public lectures you give, where the public is invited, not the students.
But you publish your lectures then.
And so this emphasis on publication is still the action of 1809, 1808.
The books are the best-sellers.
You didn't get to be a full professor in the German University of the 19th century
unless you had those best-sellers, scholarly best-sellers,
Moms in History of Rome, that kind of thing.
Oh, heck, it was Riddles of the Universe, the great Darwinian book of the 1880s, and so on.
And the American one always saw the students, the state university students, the private ones still put the faculty.
Neither of them put the community very far.
Anybody know where the community idea came from, the American idea?
No European, no British.
Because the American University has promised community theory, but it hasn't delivered.
Not the Columbia, but like Columbia, 1910 or so.
We found its victory in the New Deal.
The New Deal was manned by Columbia and Chicago professors, both community-focused.
The foundation of the National Bureau of Economic Research, which is Columbia,
their public administration here in Albuquerque, Chicago. All this is 1912 community field.
Their school of social work, which is Columbia. And all this had reached its fruition by 1930.
So maybe we are now in a transition field where we have to think and talk through the
of the multiversity and what he means by this is whatever we do, if we can budget it, provided
we can fund it. That's what the multiversity is, a collection of budget allocations held
together by a common parking lot, which is how Clark is self-defined. And you can't
define niches. If anything anybody wants, provided we can fund it, we'll do it. But
But then you don't try to link them.
You run the word's largest delicatessen's law.
You don't make a tie offering of lox on bagels and cuckoo.
It doesn't work.
The one who wants lox on bagels gets lox on bagels.
The one who wants cuckoo clock gets cuckoo clock.
But you don't try to have a common policy for both.
Only thing you can say is, if you don't sell cuckoo clock
for two weeks, then this continues the line.
And that's the university isn't able to do.
So maybe this is not the time for sure panting through the Art Museum by the half the time of the United States.
How to select the director for this?
That I think we know how not to do.
