What? And therefore what? What? And therefore? Economists. Therefore there are no demand and supply curves for it.
An increase in the demand for a by-product has no impact on the supply because the supply is governed by the demand for the main product and by service.
an increase in the supply
of a byproduct usually has no
effect on the demand. A byproduct
has no
price elasticity either
in a direction. That isn't
always quite true. If the
supply is increased, the price
sure goes down, but the demand
might be stimulated.
But the opposite
is crystal clear. An increase
in the demand will not increase
the supply because it's a byproduct.
And if you make, in the first place, you assume shoes, what do you say you would integrate into leather?
Anybody know where the leather is to do with that?
You have all kinds of, plus some of those boots.
Anybody know?
Who came across because, yeah, you know what underlay DuPont's going into coiffure?
DuPont is very intelligent.
Occasionally one can be too intelligent.
In the 50s, DuPont clearly saw the fact that raising essentially an impossible use of solar energy for food
because anybody here has learned this, I'm sure,
is because even the most efficient animal, which is probably the pig and occasionally the fish,
I do not convert more than what is 12% of the energy in the vegetable into animal, protein, meat. So that you lose about, you lose 87% or maybe it's only 80% of the energy, the food energy and vegetable matter.
And quite clearly this is an exceedingly inefficient way of conversion, and in a world in which population is growing very rapidly, this interest is not tenable, and therefore grow proportionately linear, let alone disproportionate, to population very long.
At the same time, the habit of wearing something on your bare feet, footwear, was increasing disproportionately fast.
You see, of all common goods, the demand for footwear rises fastest as you can.
Nobody grows a footwear unless the demand for footwear is going up exponentially.
And so DuPont saw the market for a plastic footwear material.
There were two things wrong with DuPont.
Very instructive, very instructive.
It did not occur to DuPont that people were not buying leather.
Neither you nor I buy leather.
We buy footwear.
You couldn't kill us when it comes to it.
That's very interesting.
And leather had an old prestige connotation.
But no, you don't.
You and I don't go in and check the height.
Have you ever?
No, we buy footwear.
And therefore, there's no guarantee that it has to be made out of leather,
out of something that looks in the plastic.
So there is a substitution possibility, because we don't buy leather.
And secondly, it didn't occur to them, secondly, DuPont's timing.
DuPont saw an inevitable development, and they were right.
But instead of it taking ten years, Dupont sold Corfam just at the moment when the basic assumptions of which the basics were coming true.
The basic assumption is regard to leather.
But by that time, both you and I, to what you and I don't know anymore, sandals, sneakers, all kinds of near shoes,
which however for the people who wear them are perfectly honest, know that leather actually, while Dupont was absolutely right.
The leather supply of the world has gone up at about one-third the rate at which we're buying.
In other words, if we try to supply the world with what in 1950,
well-heeled, literally well-heeled gentlemen in Wilmington, Delaware, considered as well.
But nobody has told those Indians in the Altiplano of Peru that shoes are made from leather.
There were sneakers very happily in all colors of the rainbow, by the way, and some the rainbow
never heard of, and so DuPont was absolutely right in saying what the non-leather, the
non-leather-like materials, not the substitute for leather, but something that nobody ever
missed. And secondly, development took much longer, we call it outbids. We're coming to the point where even money can't
produce it anymore. Now we are coming to where vegetable proteins, extended soybeans, what have you,
are increasingly going to take the place of animal proteins. We are not switching to a vegetarian
diet in the sense in which the Indian peasant eats rice, but we are coming to a diet in which
animal proteins are being simulated by vegetable proteins, make them taste very much like them,
to look like them, and to behave like them, and to be officially like them.
But it took them much longer to come back, so being very brilliant.
You see, it's easy to prospect, one can't see, and one has to take that chance.
One has to think, was the right decision a legitimate one?
The only decision to think, you know, maybe the product was technically good enough, that's another thing.
But back to, you could have made another decision in life.
in retrospect it went wrong and very instructive therefore ask and learns to ask you see i once
said the boss who said i've learned 77 years of life very evil man only one thing if an argument
is absolutely full regarding the future it's wrong remember that's what they forecast on
they dupe on people that that is the intellectual arrogance they were too damn cock shoot it was
with an argument. They didn't say what could happen and what about the time. And one says all right
this is an absolutely an argument nobody can argue with, therefore it's almost a logic exists only in
behind hindsight. This is a very old, there is no logic projected. Hindsight everything,
don't you know, every historian whatever has happened is inevitable. Yeah. So you could not
used. There was a period when it was fashionable to write as if history, if the Arabs had won
in 800, 700, 600, 70 states, or whenever it was, when there were 700-some defeaters by
Charles Martel out of Toulouse, and if they had overrun Europe, if there were, there were
defeaters. And if this, or if Columbus, at the least, instead of West, the Pleasant were
that the developments could not have not happened.
Look back, it looks almost orderly.
Logic always operates in retrospect.
Because only logic is organized, no limits or no phenomena.
One learns not the logical argument for the future,
but always to say, where are the points?
If this would not happen, what would this mean?
And if that were to deviate ever so slightly,
Would it really upset the whole apropos?
One learns to test an argument for the future with skepticism in the power of reason.
Because logic is always roundabout.
The relationship of phenomena will remain the same.
Configuration begins time.
Well, let's go back here to our strategy.
Alternative courses of action.
of action. Here we are, we all agree at the period in the American market where our strategy
was a preferential one. Anybody incidentally know why the strategy of these people was
so successful? What did they do? Very few. The basic strategy is that of the customer.
That's the fact of the population. Well, the population, the younger...
You see, the peace strategy are demographic.
Will you please accept the fact that the only thing,
because everybody who is going to be in the American labor force
by 1990 is born by now,
by 1990 is born by now, 15 years later.
All right, we may have some substantial immigration.
It's possible, but very likely,
really substantial one on the model of the late 19th century.
It's unlikely that we're going to have a million people a year again.
But one can't rule it out.
It's just highly improbable.
We may have a tremendous epidemic, and the labor force may be much smaller.
But within such outside improbability, the size of the labor force, the upper limit, is known.
They're all born by now.
And you know that old joke of the man who thought that if he sleeps with nine women, he'll have one baby in one month. No, it doesn't work that way. He may have nine in nine months, but it'll still take nine months.
So it still takes 15 years to become 15 years old.
And so, you know, demographics are not absolutely certain,
but the uncertainties are very limited.
And there are outside probabilities.
The 9 out of 10, that's a fairly high probability.
That's damn close to certainty.
Well, you know, and therefore the safest, the soundest, the strongest foundation
for any attempt to anticipate the future is population.
What makes this so important is that up till mid-1990s,
while everybody knew this, this was one of those perfectly useless.
The population did not change, except in the Black Death
or catastrophic to the effect of all such very rare events
as huge as the 19th century westward very late apart from such very old enormous from such
population where berries go slow that for all practice if a country doubled its population
in the hundred it was growing terribly fast and it really never happened except after one of those
great catastrophes changes in age structure yes probably the low point in life expectancy in the
west of europe was probably reached life expected quite good anybody but probably the early 17th
late the late 70s early 18th century anybody know the great play of the 18th century the invention
of the midwife of course the invention of the midwife was made this is one of those nice
stories in the impacts of technology the need for technology assessment the midwife was invented we
You know, the greatest of English traditions.
Without the concomitant invention of hand washing,
the antisepsis or asepsis, clandestine, didn't go with it.
So the midwife was a tremendous invention in the sense that
for the first time a trained person was available to help mothers in childbirth
and thereby cut down the barriere of stillbirth and women dying in childbirth.
The midwife began to spread corporal fever, chiropractic fever, a very rare thing.
So this is one of the main self-inflicted plagues.
So this had a tremendous...
These are very interesting phenomena.
Over 100, 100 years ago, it was not really after that.
Suddenly you had, after World War II, a very rapid, massive population.
One time, second time, the populations are remarkably stable over long periods in their size and their structures by far.
But for this population, it is a very erratic population.
Population dynamics are central. They are not different.
They are the only one. They are consumers.
They are not customary miners.
They are not voters.
They do not exert the social and political.
political they are not the labor force the point of view of the economy they are the costs and
that's all so there's a 15 yearly time an 18 yearly time before they become anything else
so you have that time and there are also changes in population and just again it's another 10 years
minimum the first impact that we see is enrollment in primary school it's a six years that's a hell
But for any manufacturer of automobiles, the cycle is at least 70.
For homebuilders, the cycle is 25.
Insofar as you can base any demographics, you are on the bedrock.
That's the first thing always to look for.
It doesn't always help you, in the least.
Or it's sometimes a very minor factor.
For our hospitals in this field, it's a very minor factor, except for the maternity.
Because basic changes in health care delivery and health care payment and health care fashions are more important.
It's not unimportant, it's not a major. So they can't build on it except in the maternity ward.
And without any change it's very amazing because nobody believes it.
Anyhow, here these people built this strategy very heavily on demographics,
on age structure of the population
and the not
particularly new fact that
teenagers are teenagers
the only difference from the last decade
over an earlier decade is that we had
so many more of them that there was a dominant
age cohort, age group
it was much less dangerous
one got spanked, one was considered
either a dropout or a juvenile
delinquent
in my time at least, cops
could be bribed much more easily
and, yes sir
You're talking of yesterday, sir, and I mean literally, you're talking, because that's all.
I suggest that you do look at page 8 of the statistical abstract of the United States,
where the population figures out, and you will get a shot.
Just as those of us who are in the habit of looking at that page, it's always page 8,
the occasion is page 9, in 1960 knew that we were facing a decade of usefulness.
We didn't know what form it was. There are some very well-known population, very well-known phenomena. First, axiom number one is the largest single-age cohort is the center of gravity and determines the basic flavor of the population.
In 1989, the last year of the Eisenhower administration, the sample of gravity of the American population was in the age group 37 to 40, the oldest it has been in our history.
As a result of the very low birth years of the 30s, the 19th of gravity, the largest single-birth group was age 17.
Population begins at age 14, 15 for these people.
Up to then, they're objects, they're not subjects.
That's the age, the youngest it's been since colonial days, particularly if you realize that one determines age, not absolutely, but relatively, in terms of the total age structure of the population.
In other words, in colonial days, where life expectancy was 26 to 29, a 17-year-old was a hell of a lot older than a 17-year-old in a population in which life expectancy is 70 or 72.
The social age of a person is not determined by the years he has lived, but by the years he can experience.
The social age is, from the end, minus.
And in that sense, that 18-year-old in 1770, who set out from New England over the Cumberland Trail, had only 12.
And he was well past middle age.
Today, he has got 60 more years to live.
It had barely begun. It's got a little over one-fifth of its lifespan, and not more than half.
One could predict it.
By 1970, when everybody knew we were in a youth rebellion, and the world had changed,
and Mr. Charles Reich talked about the greening of America,
those old fogies like myself who looked at page 8 said,
Oh no, brother, it's over. The greening of America is a brilliant explanation of what happened.
jump that plateaued level off from 54 on it crept up by in fact it didn't after 54 well within the
statistic layer the census is not that sensitive as you probably know that's a minus seven percent
um partly just partly because this is not a homogeneous population they're more homogeneous
the population the more accurate census figures are otherwise the japanese census is plus or
minus quarter of a percent but our census with blacks and chicago's and indians uh an enormous
number of immigrants is not cannot be very accurate plus a minus seven percent is quite good
considering the lack of uh in india they are probably the margin of error is closer between
and nothing very new and the 54 on there was no increase in the number of er of 3.8 million
And the United States dropped off 25% in an 18-month period, which is without precedent.
Russia during the Civil War, Russia and the German invasion.
We all said, oh my God, we had one without any catastrophe, in good times, in optimistic.
And then everybody knew that by the late 60s, it must go up again.
Because of the number of marriageable women born in the baby boom.
Everybody has known it, but it hasn't happened.
One learns one thing as a forecaster.
If a forecast is wrong for five years,
one doesn't say this is a tenacious infection
and doubles the penicillin dose.
One says, I was wrong.
And so...
But good thing, it's early 60s.
By the lake, we already have an impact.
The center of gravity would shift
into what by tradition and necessity
is their most conservative patient,
I don't recall, which are young adults.
The young adult has to be ultra-conservative,
has no break the change in attitudes
in between that sophomore in college
who has got whatever she has in her blue jeans pocket
is discretionary income, which is the economist's term
for it doesn't make two hoots a bit of difference
how she blows it.
Because you and I still pay for the dentist in three meals a day and the school bills and shoes.
And three years later, four years later, no matter how radical you believe me,
a certificate of marriage or not, we're together thinking to defy the world.
Therefore, you meet other people, the choir at the Golden Wedding Anniversary,
and the pickering, and that's amazing.
But then you consider the shoes for the baby and schools and the pediatrician and the mortgage on the house and suddenly you come up against the reality taxes of which at age 19 one knows that if one has a job in the summer camp one screams because $6.85 are being deducted.
then one comes up against the sovereign state of California.
And quite a shock.
And Seguir's man and his job and his career
and inviting his boss and the neighbors,
he said, whereas the sophomore U-Horizon
was as big as this universe,
certainly the U-Horizon properly blocked.
And most conservatively,
only because there is inevitably a gross imbalance
between the most you can earn, even the most affluent, and you have to go where you need to.
No one could predict that a very drastic of gravity doesn't have to come.
Well, look, these people have been, we better hope, people have been basing their strategy on demographics,
making such a strong strategy, and now they look at the demographics and say,
for the next 15 years, 20 years at least, they will not be in our field of our strategy.
If the basic assumptions on which your strategy has been based are becoming invalid, you have
to do something.
Otherwise, you're just breaking your back without being able to get results, and working
terribly hard not to lose ground too much.
One does not.
On occasion, you've got to swim against the tide, but accept the fact that one cannot
swim against the mountain.
Just don't try.
Then one either says, well, either I go downstream, my business is downstream, or I find myself another place.
So, and this is one of the, if you have based your strategy on a fundamental assumption,
and it turns out that the assumption changes, then you have to think,
then it says nothing is as fundamental as the sag of the front bare foot in tissue,
and emerging product areas.
For anybody know the identity,
which shoe company still has the greatest success,
just cashing in on people moving out of being barefoot
into having something on their feet?
What's the worst feeling as an immigrant
to discover again when you come out?
My childhood, I made four sizes too long.
Seven days!
See, we have already, I think, established
that it really is not a realistic, serious alternative
for this company.
But what other alternatives are there?
The universe is not exhausted by saying,
let's go into Europe with our present business,
or let's stay in the United States
and become fashion merchants, the shopping center.
Those are, maybe they are serious alternatives,
we don't know yet.
But they surely aren't the only ones.
Anybody else?
Any you can see right away are missing.
Yes, sir.
I think the basic, don't quarrel with one.
