dabbled a little bit in those two cases and now i think we want to go into the action phase of
the area how one develops a strategy and that's what this one case we have not discussed is all
about the crispin shoe company you remember it do you want to refresh your mind and have a five
I'm going to look at it before we go into it, maybe.
Gene, have you got a copy?
Do you know the case?
My only copy, so I must ask it to return.
I'll return it.
All right.
If you have any questions, if you want more facts, there ain't none.
I don't want the facts.
There isn't.
You've got more facts than you need.
But is it reasonably clear?
Any questions?
Let's not worry about the names of these three characters.
It's not very important.
but other than that anybody got any anything obscure or anything dubious in his mind or her
mind okay how do you begin yes you have to decide what your objective is i'm just listening i'm
waiting for you okay yeah does anybody have a legible hand mine is totally and hopelessly
illegible anybody willing to put things we get our terminal insanity off this blackboard
which is what it has now, which is also a form of strategy, but not down things.
You have a little hand, I remember you. You have a little hand. You know what mine looks like, don't you?
Yeah, I know what yours is. You can't even read it.
I'm living proof that one didn't have to wait until the 1970s before a child didn't learn to write in school.
I never did.
So we have one.
Somebody said, find out what the company's objective is.
You have to have an objective.
And you said, what are we good at?
What are we good at?
What are our strengths?
They are saying, don't start with study, ever.
That is a lazy man's excuse that substitutes business for thinking.
First find out what is relevant. Just as, let me say, every graduate will tell you that one starts work by doing research.
That's why, thank God, they don't produce anything. And one starts by writing.
Then one knows what one is looking for. Otherwise you spend the rest of your life in the universe of ill-assorted information,
One brain, whether it's got anything to do with what you're interested in.
So don't start out with studying. Start out with thinking through.
Then one goes on. And then also, don't...
Here are people who have been in the shoe business ever.
All of us here together.
Their brains, that would be my market study.
I also go and look at it. But don't start out with...
It's a very bad, very common habit. It's a very bad habit.
One thinks, one defines, one clarifies, then one probably has to give a lot of looking, or maybe not at all, but one doesn't start out with studying, unless one knows what to do on purpose.
Whenever anybody says, let's make another study, just put yourself into the habit of asking the question, first assuming that we made it. Any probability that we'd find anything, we haven't.
And secondly, if we find anything, any probabilities that it will be irrelevant,
if the answer is not very clearly yes, we don't know that it's the right approach.
We don't know it. We don't do it.
We put down various proposals how to approach, how to stop.
Then we'll see how, what do you do.
So far as we see, you haven't understood anything. That's very good.
You are not yet coming to grips with strategy.
Before, even before objectives. What's our mission? Good. What's our business?
What's our business? Maybe we can put it even on top here because it's kind of difficult.
These aren't goals, so nobody's interested.
What's our business and what should it be and what could it be is on the bottom.
It needs to be.
I would say that the ability of a business to attract financial resources is a very relevant part of this.
That's the case. And here is the one fellow who knows what to do, and here is the other fellow who knows what to do. Remember?
In the school with the Jesuits, nobody? Learned a little elementary logic? Been through that second session of logic.
But by now, he goes right through this group. But see, you're committing sin number one, which is to confuse, contrast, and contradiction.
Black and white proposed here are mutually exclusive as the management group here agrees.
We don't have the resources to do both.
We can do one or the other.
That's a statement of mutual exclusion.
But they don't know.
They are not the same thing as black and non-black.
Black and white is contrast.
And the entire spectrum is in between.
Black and non-black exhausts the spectrum.
You know what I'm saying?
The most common mistake, that's why it comes first in the list of mistakes in classical Aristotelian logic, is not the wrong conclusion, but the undisputed middle to confuse and contrast with the contradiction.
And here are those two fellows. One says black and the other one says white. And they then conclude that this covers the universe. The first thing one does in the development of any decision of its path is to say what all is this a full range of what. And if it is, you know, then irrational.
If you have black and white and you assume that these are all the colors, then you're almost going to be lost.
The great majority of colors lies between those two extremes.
It is neither included nor excluded.
It's neglected. It's overlooked.
And so the first question when one has alternatives is always to say, what's the full range of alternatives?
Is this it?
Now, you may be absolutely right.
maybe these people want to go back and oh you found the chair was just worrying about the
standings they're going for it and these people should go back and see what is the purpose of our
business what are the objectives yes maybe and you may say they may not agree on those chances
or they don't but here they have that strategic decision to me and to have fairly strongly held
positions both rational because these are on the face of it irrational both is a failure
obviously they have thought through opportunity to both see opportunity they may not have thought
they have thought it through to the point that they are in agreement that they can go one way
or another and not both are limited in other words except limited and then once if then the first
The rational step is to say, have you exhausted the alternative?
Or are you making a decision, committing yourselves in your own minds to courses of action,
which may indeed turn out to be the two among which you have to choose.
But unless you have looked at the full range of alternatives, you don't know.
You may have left out the obvious one.
Just as black and white wouldn't help you any, deciding what color pants I wear, you know.
And it's the obvious one.
You want to look at it and you know, don't you?
Unless you're absolutely colorblind.
But if you say black or white, then you cannot answer it right.
And if I look around this room, black and white don't give you the right answer.
Somebody wears a white shirt with a couple of...
Not very good.
Most. And so, if in a strategy, the first thing is to make sure nobody can put down all your terms. But they may know too, so that at least one can eliminate. Then one can say on the one hand, let's think through our objectives, build a matrix.
On the one hand, you have to check off strategies against objectives.
And on the other hand, you check off strategies against strengths and weaknesses.
You find, no, this won't make a decision for you.
Decisions don't come out of computers or out of anything, or out of logic.
But at least you eliminate the things that don't fit,
and you see where you have possibility.
Rational might be what assumptions underlie each and what you have to do to convert each into a reasonable gambit, because that's what any strategy is.
Strategy is rational gambling in which the odds are that you don't hope for miracles.
You hope the other side doesn't have any miracles working.
He assumes that you have enough of a margin so that you can afford to undertake it.
You have stigma. When you say a man is either guilty or not guilty, that is a true contradiction.
And you might go, if you want to go this God way and say guilty, not guilty, and not proven, already logically difficult.
It is unlikely that anything in the universe is exhausted into eternity.
There are a few, very few phenomena.
In the sense, we have basic, that great breakthrough, which was not a scientific one, but a logical one. It's not science, but logic. That conclusion was wrong. That most elements have more than one.
This is one of the most ironic cases of the great productive power of a true mistake, of a brilliant mistake.
But one does not assume that alternatives which are substantive, black and non-black, the second alternative, black, is purely formal.
it does not tell you what color it is
all it tells you is it ain't black
but it could be anything from
gray to white
but when you have two alternatives
that are
both substantive
that are both in other words operational
courses of action
assumption is almost irrefutable
that they do not exhaust
the universe but are randomly
picked out of a fairly large number
and then one says
hold it. Let's get down
their main alternative.
This is the key
to strategy is not to do
what these fellows are doing and what
you are ready to do. Which is to
argue who is right and who is wrong. But to say
what are the available
alternatives. Let's assume they are right
too. These are on the face
of it. They are both rational
alternatives. It may turn out
that neither of them is good for
this company. We don't know. But they
They're certainly irrational. None of them is asking that. Not one of them is going to say, the gross industry of the 60s is going to be the space program. Let's get a shot, let's build on the Moon Guard.
Well, which for this company would be completely irrational, though God knows some of the way
particular defense contracts have been left, they might be irrational.
They don't say, let's do something that's quite clearly unrelated to what we have done,
what we know, what we understand.
It just sounds glamorous.
So offhand, these two alternatives are serious.
But offhand also, they are not.
Yeah, so one starts out by saying, what is the range of what, is there one alternative you can see immediately that's lacking?
In other words, no change, doing nothing.
Let me say there's always, believe me, one doesn't make it.
And so one always puts down as the first alternative, because everybody knows how to do.
There are major decisions, most cases in Europe.
So it's a serious decision.
They put quite that in a publishing house.
Smith totally missed the textbook, totally.
And that therefore, to go into educational movies and video teams,
because we have done a good job running our business to take over something we know absolutely,
at least we have an open mind, but to which Chesterton gave the final answer that it's an oyster that wouldn't close itself,
it would never form a pit, and no cases would occur, or whatever.
but so money any desire to do something should always be suspect to say let's do something
entirely different because we are really not very good at running our own business and then the
answer is god damn it before you optimize your business don't rush off uh because let me say
If you want to go in for the high-porting job, don't take off from quicksand.
You're not going to make it.
Everyone has to have a firm foundation.
And that means a going business, doing something different.
It's a great thing.
Some of you have tried it.
The unexpected always happens.
And has anybody ever seen a pleasant surprise?
I read in the papers of that year down there in South Africa
with six triplets having taken a triple dose of reverse control pill.
I don't know whether that's a pleasant surprise or not.
I think that pleasant surprises usually look like those six triplets.
But surprises are almost by definition unpleasant.
Nobody likes to be surprised.
It almost forces you to change your view of the world and of yourself
and the course of action.
Even if you win the great prize in the lottery, it is not really a pleasant surprise. It's a shock.
And, you see, there's in all the history of lottery winners, no cases have held on to it.
To know of one family, history has it that the uncle of my uncle by marriage, my uncle died just now,
won the great prize in the lottery in 1880 and held on to it.
on to it. But you know why? Because it was such a shock that he had a heart attack and died.
That is, I think, the only documented case of holding on to it. Otherwise, I'm pretty sure my
uncle's uncle, or at least to me, would have spent it in one glorious binge of six weeks or what have
you, and then returned to being a taxi driver or whatever he was, a coachman. But he had a heart
attacked when he heard the news and caught the telegram and died on the spot.
So that half of it the lawyers didn't spend was
saved. So one looks, one starts out with
do nothing. But now what else is there? Can you think of
alternatives excepting for the moment the argument
of these people which is that we have reached
the point where the great flood tide that we
saw in our market and took advantage of is subsiding. The next wave has to come
elsewhere. So we are looking around in terms of what how we define our
expertise and that may solve the problem of these three young
people assuming they own if they don't. But nothing is the case that lets you
to believe that they own. But it may solve the problem of these three people
or it may not. But it doesn't solve the problem of the company. Not in the least, just bringing in a consultant doesn't solve the problem of the company, it just means somebody else has to come up with the answer.
and here are three young men
who are in their 40s
25 years
let me say this idea that people
who have been working for 25 years
and working hard
and successfully
make good aristocrats
slight misunderstand
by that time those poor bastards
have totally become
addicted to the habit of working
it's habit 4
to find out if it's habitable? I can assure you, if you haven't, that your ex-associates
who are age 65, not 45, are being pensioned off. And the withdrawal symptoms are very
severe. Oh, the first three weeks are blissful. But I mean, how many trout do you want to
catch. So 20-odd years in yesterday, and this is no solution for you personally. So all right,
maybe you own a piece of the company. I wouldn't know. There's nothing in the belief that they're
anything but hired hands. In fact, they're locked in. And where they get the fair piece of change,
so what? But it certainly does not solve the problem for the company. It just means that
They say, we are not competent to solve the company's problem.
Let somebody else do it.
Why do they have already called in their staffman?
So what more do you want?
It does not matter.
So here's the company.
They took it.
Years of stagnation.
Stayed in yesterday's market.
Did not accept the fact that it had reached its objective.
Paul Crispin, part of CISI,
because his problem is that he had reached his objective.
And it wasn't really fixed.
When you have reached your objectives,
then you have to look at them and accept the fact that you have.
And the worst example, public schools, not only in this country, all over the world today,
which has attained the objectives of 2,000 years,
which is to get anybody in school and keep them there indefinitely.
There are many ways of doing that, I guess.
But I mean, but it's essentially all within the established business.
And mind you, you may vary the options,
the only sensible thing you can do is optimize what you have get as much out of it as you can
not to float and wait till you see another time what alternative we have two alternatives they
have the alternative of the same basic business elsewhere rather in the frenchman you know
The world, you know that old story of the Hungarian that comes into a map store?
That's what it is. There's a globe there, and he asks the storekeeper what this is,
and the fellow explains to him that you can see the whole world on it, and the man is very Hungarian.
It could be any other small country.
He's very much impressed by it and says, I'd like to buy one that shows only Hungary.
That is the way any country, particularly a small country, likes to see the world.
And any French government certainly sees the world that way.
Europe is what they see, isn't it?
Europe, I'd specify.
And there is the same expertise, not the same expertise.
For one says, our business is footwear.
And the opportunities for footwear are better elsewhere today.
The other fellow says, our business is mass distribution of, not of meat, and not of fish, but of high fashion, not high cost. That's how the same expertise in business, which is, we will only do something where we can put base on our strength, on something we think we are direct.
Yes, we are not going to invest financially in a sense. We are only going to do things where we have something to contribute, which is incidentally the essence of wisdom. Anybody's money is as good as everybody else's.
no dollar buys more than and therefore money is never a constraint but money by itself is
not because you do not have anything distinct and one cannot get the return on the end so
what the question is what is our contribution what are we good at what do we do easily that
other people either cannot do at all or find it very hard to do how many of you in this room
put the blood running fashion chain stores anybody here would scare you but the way a
store like this looks with the claremont high school juniors and seniors congregating that's
if you're such a store to be successful it's the hangout for the upper teenage crowd how many of
you really want to be most of you can't even do but believe me with that advantage i could not
and it wasn't implemented, but it broke something.
Now the very idea is more, you know how much money it does?
I don't know, but the expense of the,
so both, the Olympics are very wide, very big.
Limitations are, that's just because the Wall Street Journal
says that the next 10 years are going to be years
of great expansion in petrochemicals.
We aren't going to polystyrene,
or because there's a housing boom predictably.
We aren't going to become mass business, or just because we're going back into 10 years,
or because this or that or the other.
Well, it's still not our business.
Many of us, where we don't feel heard, want to be in that kind of big...
Well, they have shoe companies that make their own shoes, but what do you want? Leather?
The most change starts with the bull and the bull...
