always a very real change in population dynamics in which the adolescence group no longer grows
and within the foreseeable future with drop shopping when you begin to drop sharply you say
16 is for our company's age in which they become customers for us
and when you know when you begin to drop shopping 77 years that's not so long and far out you know
So, there is a short range, maybe long range, over 30 years, it can change buying capital.
May I please say that it is wise to resist the urge to educate the customer.
Every businessman I know sees himself as an educator and wants to change.
Pharmaceutical companies want to change physicians, physicians want to change patients.
True companies want to change housewives, and every industrial product manufacturer
wants to change purchasing agents and educate them.
Education is beautiful.
The reason why it is a non-profit activity is that it is ineffectual.
If it were effectual, one could charge for it.
It's ineffectual.
Therefore, if one has to get money for it on its beauty, it's not on its design.
So it is terribly frustrating if you happen to be a writer and educator.
Most of them are wrong.
So it's not if you have to educate the customer.
It's not impossible.
And very rarely.
You have to educate the custom-writers in the long haul of the world, except the fact that, let me tell you a secret, before you start educating the custom-writers, the possibility that he or she may know what he or she is doing, I admit it's unlikely possible.
And I submit that the housewife of 23, who no longer buys six pairs of shoes a year, but buys one, is not irrational. In the first place, her priorities have changed.
and the medicine for the baby is correct and the new roof on the triumph of the mask below
over the private the right priorities here at age 19 she is out on a party four days a week
now in my days they went dancing and that so one could explain why the shoes didn't last long
you know now that shoes don't last long how many of you have teenage children what's the
best things to do when you go into a room take them off and pick them under the nearest sofa
where your wife finds in the next move without the way of identifying
so i think now the uh well in my days kids dance their shoes out now i think they just kick them
out uh but the result from point of view of the shoe store is the same the need that you
pair of sneakers. How many days are you going out to dance? All right, once in the blue moon you go
to Colonel Saunders and buy your dinner there instead of having to cook it, but that's about it.
Suddenly your shoes were very high in your buying schedule when you were 19 footwear.
I said, anyway, how many pairs of shoes do you men buy a year?
Half a pair.
Half a pair.
Between half and one and a half.
At that, all of us have closets full of shoes, don't we?
It's all right.
The main men wear out a lot of shoes, but how many main men do we have in this building?
The rest of you, of us.
I probably walk more than any of you walk, and I'm home three to five miles a day.
But even so, I don't wear other than shoes.
So certainly, what alternatives of strategy does this company have?
One alternative may be to do nothing and to optimize.
That's only an alternative on condition that you are in a position
where they run a very tight ship, very cost conscious,
so that they can have tremendous earnings in cash flow without expanding, without having
to plow back.
We don't know enough to investigate.
Then this becomes, well, this is strategy number two we worked out for the bakery, you
remember, the strategy of optimizing earnings in cash flow.
We don't know whether that's an available strategy.
If it isn't, then doing nothing is not really a rational strategy.
Maybe the only thing they can do with that is then simply saying you have had it.
But you have the other two strategies, what alternatives, other than the law, don't try
to be logical.
First one puts things on the board and then one organises it.
Yes sir?
One thing you might do instead of just going.
Yeah, but which is the way you do?
That's just the way, let me say, of making the decision palatable to the loser.
What you're really saying is instead of having to admit that we are going number one, we give him, we sugarcoat it with the pill. What one postpones, one abandons, except one of the signs of maturity is to know that.
That all right, then one may use rhetoric which says we are postponing it.
Politically, this may be very advantageous, it enables the loser to maintain faith, but that's all it is.
What one postpones, one abandons, except for a very simple reason.
Think back on the DuPont co-fashions. Their basic mistake of DuPont was timing.
Timing is of the essence. There is a lovely line in one of the, one of these minor poets, I don't know which one, maybe Orlovich says,
Timing is of the essence. Maybe that's a little bit too sweeping. But it is a great theme.
And what makes sense today, you postpone it five years, you know there's a lovely Hollywood plot.
The days when Hollywood still turned out movies, they're not for us.
And which run roughly as boy meets girl, cruel fate separates boy from girl, they both marry
somebody else, then providence smiles on them and kills off their spouses,
and they meet again and they live happily ever after. Well that's fine for Hollywood, before
everybody else let me say this is the one absolutely sure recipe for a wretched marriage
at age 21 or whenever this was a typical fred astaire in the rogers plot if anybody is old
enough to know what i'm talking about this is one of the books and if they at age 21 if they
had gotten married the kids might have had a chance they would have grown up together
maybe even mature together or if luck prevented each other from maturing you know so that's it
uh that's lucky the happiest marriage i know in my life is that of my dearly beloved aunt emmy
who's now 90. uh it was she and her husband is 96 very distinguished man
austin's 20 would have kept each other from growing up that's a very happy for the little
hold on their children. Those two girls who were six, they had outgrown their parents.
They married difficultly, they just wanted differential rates of maturity.
But some of the kids might have had a chance, but now they are 37. They have grown apart in
different ways, they have had different experiences and made different friends and different enemies.
They have no chance.
30 years later, yet again.
But that's another thing.
So what one postpones, one abandons.
The best people ever make the setting priority
are people who set the priority,
concentrate everything they have on it,
and when they have done the job,
don't go back and pick up number two on the list.
but make priorities over again and they almost never come up with the number two on the list
six months or six years earlier in the meantime the environment the situation has changed and
what a year earlier almost got to be number one priority a year later is not in the running
Those are the most successful strategies, they do not go down the list, they make sure
it's overrated.
Because timing is us, timing is us.
And so if you say do it seriatim, doing one of them first and the other one second, you're
simply telling me that you're kidding either yourself or the other fellow.
But you can't possibly mean that.
This, let me say, is about as realistic as typically an 11-year-old boy solves the problem of their career by saying,
first I become a fireman, and when I reach a time when I can get my pension, I'll go to the medical school.
All right. An 11-year-old of age, this is riskless.
Of course, it isn't going to do either.
In any event, it does not add to the alternatives. What alternatives of action are there?
well what are the obvious things which is still buys much less
well that's exactly strategy number two which is to go into non-footwear not necessarily you know
not necessarily uh but you're already talking about whether number two strategy makes a great
deal of sense uh what alternatives do you have that are really not you're just embroidering
these two. Yes, sir?
Of the what?
Manufacturing. What?
Why are they all manufacturing? They're making
all their shoes, you'll be told.
What else do you want?
In other words, you have the alternative
two realized in Europe.
They're a very interesting thing to do.
You know,
it's one of the fundamental
pieces of physics that
forces do not work
well at a distance. Anybody know what the law with which you lose force at distance?
What?
Kill.
But that's bad enough.
Here you are, you have no experience with, you haven't made your mistakes in the environment,
you know and understand where you know the people, the language, where you can check
up what people you hire to be your man. You've never been in Europe.
And we are moving on into two unknowns, an unknown market and an unknown business.
I don't know, I'd like to make a mistake at a time, yes sir.
That's a way of implementing this pattern, that's how do you do it, not what do you do.
Look, why do you accept the view of the world, that the world consists of the United States
America, maybe Canada included, and Europe.
You're just eliminating something, yes sir.
Why not start the Go-Go Growth Fund?
Start work on the first control ship.
There are lots of things that are being
done in this world, most of them purely. But we have
learned to do something. And one builds on, if one can,
on what one can do. You might ask me, why didn't I go in the title for? There are good reasons why,
it never really occurred to me as a serious possibility. I don't think anybody in this room
would be offended to see me in the title, would we? I hope not, I have a higher opinion than that,
Maybe what you just now said to you reflects nothing but American ignorance, namely that
the rest of the world is in the stage in which Mr. Bahta was successful in 1922, you haven't
looked.
we are now that is exactly maybe the stage where this next word is ready for what our friends have
done uh may i please say that there's no greater mistakes that the prevailing american believes
that there has been no economic and social development you go back and look at the goals of
either mr truman in 1949 or mr kennedy when he proclaimed the decade of
development anybody know what the actual development results are and does anybody know
what the reaction was when those two gentlemen declared those goals remember anybody old enough
to remember they said they're out of their mind about 20 times as ambitious as anybody can
possibly reach anybody know what the actual performance 72 hundred percent better it's been
in part offset by population growth, which in itself may be already a result of development,
though not an expected or necessarily desirable one, are beautiful. Argentina and Chile, which
were rich countries before 1914, are today poor countries. In other words, let me say that wealth
This is not a fact of nature, but the human achievement which can be destroyed by this mismanagement.
You don't have to see the Argentinian achievements growing, but it's one of the great triumphs.
That really took the company of all the likes of us ordinary human beings.
We wouldn't have been able to put it off.
That was fabulous.
And in Southeast Asia, it's very sparkly.
After Ecuador, especially Cuba, to the oil company, what was the geographic term?
There is no such thing.
Ecuador is essentially pre-Columbian Indians in the forest.
Oh, well, it's not even that.
And that Africa has been very uneven and that you have an unknown verdict about some areas
of West Africa, which has tremendous development.
America and East Africa, large areas in Africa that have only been going downhill, you know,
and East Asia is also very uneven.
Their main event, and it's kind of puzzling and very frightening, is that precisely because
development has been unprecedented, the expectations have risen even faster.
And precisely because for the first time in most of these countries, a substantial part
of the population live a, according to middle class life, the, for the first time, everybody
sees that it is possible to live, for ordinary people, to live a decent life. Tensions have grown
almost beyond the bearing. And another factor is that the next 10 years, the number of people
only jobs the babies are the best rate of the children's survival number of life with no
development she has risen the number of survivors past age five has tripled into a group uh that's
great the population but there has been no worse way no baby boomers in this country
And so, let's see, our neighbor in Mexico will now have to find each year jobs for 750,000
people.
Never in Mexico have had more than 150,000 a year, partly because three times as many
children survive, and partly because the Indians cannot get as long as people around the land,
to say nicely.
we are no need a social or an economic problem they may remote and out of sheer frustration
is that you love the provincial policemen and that your local provincial tax collectors
but that's almost they can do they can out of sheer frustration get out
to Guadalajara and what have you, and at the moment they are sitting in the slums, they
are political.
So suddenly you have social, government, talk to an experienced Mexican politician and quote
an old boss of the supposedly most disturbed states.
I said, why do you spend all your time in the city?
He said, that's why.
I said, well, they want to come to see those 90% of your population.
said once a year go around and shake their hands, and if that doesn't do, I sleep with
their wives. That's what he's saying, somewhat overestimated himself, and I told him so,
which deadly insult to Mexico. But he was fundamentally right, the campesinos, if only
because they can't combat the very different, but in objective formation, not of the entire
but are far more than at any one time, because if you look at economic history, at any one time you had major economic development only in isolated areas.
Britain first, then in the early 19th century, then Belgium.
We get going outside of that English Channel area, largely perhaps by the same in Germany.
20 years later, Russia, Western Russia and Japan, by the end of the century, Northern Italy and Central Europe was Bohemia.
So you had, at any one time, you had one area which had very rapid development, half the rate of 10 or 15% a year.
Bohemia was probably the fastest, something like 18% a year, very similar to Japan in that.
And in the last 20, 25 years, you had little where about two-thirds of Brazil may not be a rich country.
But I don't know if you realize that Brazil now has a lot of national product in Great Britain.
Of course, that's a large population.
In other words, income per capita is still a good deal lower.
Total Brazilian gross national product is ahead of Britain now to about $100 billion.
uh and colombia and mexico in the in the americans the chinese non-communist countries taiwan
hong kong and singapore in india very dangerous you have a developed not rich but developed
economy about 65 billion people in the continent of 600 very uh and so on uh this in many ways
probably one of the problems of the world because of the capital and because of the inflationary
pressures which generates worldwide but we have never had that uh but i saw the idea all right
there are 600 million indians our own 550 are not yet are probably coming up to the butter
shoe model but 65 million have outgrown the button uh you know that is a larger population
than Germany, let alone Canada, and in Brazil you have 120 of which maybe they don't drive Cadillacs
because they drive Volkswagen. That is already one of the major causes of cost. Anybody know
how much Japan produces in the United States? More than 50,000. Anybody know what the silver is?
What? 250? What's that? Oh, it's a little bit a million and a half. What's that? United States,
Canada, Japan, or Germany, or Italy comes first, then Italy, France, England, and then comes
Brazil in number eight. A country in which people graduate from going barefoot to wooden clocks,
you know. That's a country in which they graduate from, they are in something that is exceeding
being one of the first growth. They may graduate from what our friends have, maybe not the upper,
I could never know it, you see. I don't know enough where the Brazilians who spend proportionately,
a large part of their disposable income on food, where. Once I don't know a thing, but that's easy
to find out, you know. You just have a few stores and experiment. And the same in Hong Kong and
what have you, and in Colombia. In other words, the world may be the very country where Vata has
been most successful maybe the countries where you have the market for our friends uh one looks for
is he learned to look at this work because here is butler who has created a market he has come
accustomed people to paying money for shoes where 30 years ago they looked for a discarded truck
tire and cut out some rubber to walk on you know that way the indian indian is and i first knew him
i didn't see a single one walking around on all truck tires this time uh well i didn't go into the
back of the beyond if you want to see what people are just moving from going barefoot they're going
on all truck tires i could take you there uh no uh but not uh where i was uh which is not exactly
rich yeah there are there are more sneakers and sandals and shoes boots uh uh so so you were
maybe um so vanda has created the market custom design shoes uh instead of either
relying on what they can serve or you go to cover uh and yet they are moving beyond
that's the job they're very cheap uh homogeneous totally standardized
product area that's that's where you have the market ready for what you have to offer
a slightly more expensive slightly better quality much more fashion uh so on
i look for you the one strategy is instead of uh going into europe where what our friends would
have to offer is a system of distribution and not essentially the right kind of merchandise
because they are the europe is not exactly the rest of shoe stores uh go into the areas where
you the tide is running for you the way where not quite not the sea and for you in the in the
u.s countries earlier that's one or two that hasn't been considered uh you said something
about that make from who you who used to introduce now it's beginning to talk she's staying until
this probably stays in the labor force much longer than my body knows the fact the figures
what proportion of the americans women stay on the labor force married women
Now, let me say that these are, when one looks at figures over, let me say, maybe you shouldn't
look a gift horse in the mouth, but always look a figure in the mouth.
These are very difficult figures, because for that, then one looks in the small print,
how labor force is defined, as this includes full-time, part-time, and those that are not
working and but are saying either that they want to work or that given the proper conditions they
would work in other words the labor force is not the same thing as ready and available it goes much
beyond this uh but uh there's very little doubt that at least one third of the married women in
this country actually are which is the highest figure and not on the farm and not in their
husbands opposed to a shop but there's employees and organizations what a good many young mothers
have two small children still stay at home at least till the first kid starts going to school
then they come back i mean there are no but still so what you are saying is that maybe
one says what opportunities does the fact that the population is growing older and changing
basic life situations and lifestyles what does it offer that they are working uh that
they have small families but they have families uh they have money of their own which is what
not unimportant let's say which is not uh therefore most of it goes into the family budget
not all of them, what opportunities that fit what we know, what we are good at, would be
offered.
Don't try to answer, because we don't know, but at least you are offering an alternative,
which is to find the kind of market within our, which corresponds to the fashion footwear
of 19, when they were 16.
may be baby things or it may be household things yeah i don't know we don't know but at least
this is an alternative trap uh the numbers will be there there's no this the same numbers that were
17 in 1967 will be 23 in 1973 you know so the numbers are there and they are going to have
money in their pocket because in fact even though there are great demands on them what is value to
them within our expertise corrective eyeglasses probably is not within our expertise but maybe
the sunglass frames might be, strictly fashion, I have suspicion that the technical know-how
to make sunglass frames can be acquired, it's not that way.
I don't know what it might be, but the market is not disappearing, it's moving, and so
where do we belong? You know, tides are, when it's high tide, it's San Pedro, it isn't high
tide, it's San Diego. What time is the tide? At this next point, and what is it at this
point? See, any other?
Just continue doing something you've done before that maybe is not...
Well, it's optimizing the earnings, but it doesn't tell you what market. You may say
the way the market is changing makes no sense for us to make sure you know that's an implementation
anybody know enough about market to know the buying behavior of all the people are they
are distinct certainly you're sure they are well we think that would be a distinct market
anybody know the fact you mean purchasing power
they are not spending let me say that except for things that are specific wheelchairs
may be housing they are not they're distinct they are buying habits of food they may buy less
simply because their income tends to be quite low in many cases, though a good deal, let me say, of the alleged
privation of the old is legend, because in many ways the demands on them are also much lower.
Not only do they get substantial tax breaks in many cases, but no more children to support,
By and large, no furniture to buy, very little clothing to buy, they are equipped.
So the demands are much higher.
They are hit hard by inflation because their incomes are fixed by and large.
But, sure, would it surprise you very much to hear that in terms of the budgets,
The post-65 American distributes in terms of income exactly like the pre-65.
They're just exactly the same distribution, simply because, by and large, a drop in their income corresponds to a drop in the demand.
They have no dependent parents, the dependent parents are altogether disappearing because of Social Security and pensions and Medicare and so on.
And they have no children to support, by and large, they do get a little bit from their children, maybe, but by and large their real income distribution isn't significantly different from that of the people who are under 65.
the only difference is that. Anybody know enough about the health statistics of the old people?
Do they get sick more often than the young people or less often, do you know?
I guess more. No, you guessed wrong.
They get sick much less often, but they stay sick longer.
And that creates a very real problem because our healthcare payments are focused on the frequency.
frequency, and not on the duration, so that before Medicare, sickness was a much greater
danger to the old. Now it's a much greater danger to the hospital, which tries to collect
for Medicare. But that's another matter. So, no, it's not a distinct market, unless you
go into wheelchairs, until you've got your hands and a few other things. The market is
Market is limited even for wheelchairs.
No, that's not what we want.
We want what our chair can do.
