but uh why and why us i shouldn't do uh what you're talking is adding additional lines that
we're talking of changes apparently so don't do that to do what to uh well sure if you go uh
and say here are the the same customers we have had we're now between 23 and they use that in
video still that was being used which on behalf of women's liberation are here with protest
namely matron which i think is a horrible word for anybody age 23 a matron is i think
i might be most hostile to a woman i can imagine but unfortunately it's a fact and
And her too. But what are their needs, their values, their behaviors, and how can we, using our strengths, which does not lie in the country, how can we utilize that market?
You would tell them now that they also change your advertising style. But let me say, advertising follows your market, not the other way around.
So, what alternatives do you see for real market?
We have said, hey, you could, that is the top strategy, same build as in Europe.
Well, there's no reason why it should be in Europe.
Maybe one looks above and more on the countries that are not yet the developed markets.
The Spain, the Portugal, the Greece, the Turkey, the Egypt, the Iran.
you don't need more than 10% market penetration. Iran is what, 50 million people?
You don't need 100% market penetration to have a substantial business. And India, the main cities,
where you probably, I don't know, have very posh shoe stores, in all those poor countries you have
terribly posh stores simply because there is a tiny little up across the very rich people for
whom nothing is too good and you'd be surprised and you have to typically a very poor pre-industrial
country let me see a a retailer supplier lives exceedingly well of one of those customers the
history of Japan, for instance. There is one of the very greatest Japanese artists,
he and his brother, an equally great artist, were the sons of a family which for three generations
did unbelievably well, supplying dresses to one empress and then to the empress's daughter-in-law,
who was also the empress's niece. Well, that was all you needed. The one customer like this,
in a terribly poor 17th century japan and in madrid there is a store which is known to have
had only one customer for the last hundred years the exclusive store in madrid and if you go in
there i think they look at u.s camps uh the new revival one after the other one it's only needed
eventually they paid their bills but you put the 20 interest rate for eight years into the price
you quote them in the first place you come out even and that is very very in bombay you probably
have a shop where the half a dozen great posse families have been shopping and it beats in price
and luxury and quality and assorted anything to like of which you and i have ever seen
the other Tiffany of yesterday, where, you know, this Tiffany Sloan was very simple.
Tiffany was being asked how he selects his customers. He said, we either have done business
with the family for three generations, or it's the current mistress, other customers
we don't take. That was where they once got paid for, you know, for Jewish. The current
and this does make sure you got paid for and for three generations well then you could expect
another two generations to get paid uh yes sir i haven't done it yet oh did it 20 years ago yes
20 years old 10 15 years ago yeah yeah and now we're latching on to a basic demographic change
yes uh-huh but now alternative two says let's get back to the shoe business all kinds of fashion
incidentally anybody know what's it because anybody knows what without telling us who
this company is what they actually did you know the number of 17 euros is going to go down after
1977 but the kind of things that are being bought in this shopping center boutique or whatever you
want to call it uh a lot of other things and we understand that business and that they have
some of it goes well beyond this 17 year old but not the shopping approach we essentially
look at the optimization of the shopping center in the first approach we looked at the optimization
of our fashion show knowledge uh you may well say that the age of greatest growth is behind
us maybe maybe not you know we are not necessarily out to grow with the same rapid rate but we are
out to maintain the moment maybe maybe it turns out there is no time to latch on to let's look
for what we so far have alternative one you go into the countries which in which the strategy
which worked so well in the united states is likely to work very well maybe europe it is more
likely to be non-european countries just demographically they are more like the us of
1956 to Brazil and Mexico and Singapore and what have you that you will have this tremendous and
secondly these are countries that are emerging out of it for a terrian stage at least large enough
populations then another strategy we put on very important to think of me and don't get the
impatient do this slowly learn to go on and see them and the other one is to say well but look
at the 17 year old kid who is spending 25 dollars a year with us that's not going to disappear she's
just going to grow older and she's going to have more money there are less discretion very important
so that you are less if you want to reach her you're probably going to move forward
towards semi-necessities and towards total frivolity uh if i sound like a middle-aged
moralist that's probably what i am uh one second with what are her the things that we know her she
knows us incidentally she's going to stop buying the shopping center what do you think
gasoline shortage or not no i don't think so she we know we are there we understand
the economics of a shopping center the space utilization of a shopping center the traffic
pattern and shopping center where the victims here put it anybody in this room know anything
about these things i don't but we do i mean and that brings us out simply because we have a
fairly fairly wide variety of people in this room and yet not one of us knows anything about this
so there is a there's a premium on this knowledge it is not something everybody knows
So one always gets paid for a scarce knowledge, and only for some relatives.
And what would that then be? That we don't know.
Then you start studying. At this point, you say, let's find out.
We don't know. Now you can say, let's make a study.
Because now you know what you're looking for.
And now you know what assumptions you have to make.
If you look at today's 23-year-old, will that hold for her sister three or four years hence?
Maybe yes, some of the things obviously.
Maybe they won't have as many babies, but they'll have quite a few until she'll retire.
Babies need time.
It's very unlikely that tomorrow's babies will come with a different plumbing system.
And so on.
But in other areas, I think you can't be so sure, let me say, nobody can be sure, do you?
Anybody know the evidence whether the American, young American pays a larger share of, you
think, for home furnishings or a smaller share, you know?
And what?
Anything they use to.
Percentage-wise?
Dollar?
Percentage-wise, absolute dollars adjusted for inflation.
I'd say more.
Let me say, don't say, let me, don't guess, let's say, let's look it up.
let's look it up uh you'd be very confused because for the first time in almost 100 years
there is no trend some groups spend now in part this is because home furnishings may be the wrong
aggregate because it includes excludes the recreation vehicle and its interior it includes
only what's in the fixed world and if you look at it those that spend much less you find these
are young people primarily young people before the children come who spend a very large amount on
furnishings outside of the home from skis to the recreation to the camper equipment to
boats happen to be not the cheapest luxury as some of us know and it's amazing what some kids
can afford or at least can get credit on and which is the same thing and so we have no banker in this
group do it now do it where's it that is it if the front of the presence of a bank number doesn't say
what they can afford or what they can get credit on it's exactly the same thing
he draws a sharp line but nobody else does yeah and so which is what keep bankers in business
and so the uh let's but let's look it's a not an easy study i can assure you that if you had this
but though you come to me and ask me where do i go to have this study made and i'll tell you
if it was with the group and you know more than that because you have to hurt some and size that's
about that kind of study is not the study which the typical market research would know how to do
because it isn't a typical market research or maybe african but you have to have some siblings
i know that's all you need you need one thing uh that group of netflix agency
might be equal to heads of this department uh so it's hand-sized but uh the other group is
uh mary welch and so on they can also do this is this is not beyond uh the competence of
customer, consumer research, not market research.
Customer research, which is quite, I'll ask you a question,
but any good marketing man, or should know me,
but so we know how to do it, and it's not an easy thing
to do, but it can be done. Let's see whether, maybe it'll turn
out to be, we don't know. Look, let's
not try to get more strategies or
We had two or three more you haven't thought of, and I would be grateful if you did, right?
Because, and the way one uncovers strategies is by just walking around and around, and
there are alternatives and around, and then suddenly one sees something, and one eliminates
ruthlessly everything that is modification.
The how-to-do advertising strategy here, getting rid of making shoes, this is all already implementation
implementation of a decision. It is not the basic strategy, it's tactical. And the first one gets
strategic and alternative out, so that one knows what one has to study. And then when there's
something and I'm going to tell you
because there's one thing
it's on the table
on your
if you
want to know what I'm doing
I'm doing it for giving you
a one dimensional simplification
of a vector analysis
but don't tell anyone
you put down
you don't have to do it this way
you put down
your alternative from one to
798, but let's make sure not to have more than 9 or 10 because I wouldn't be able to handle it.
When you put on one side the internal assumption and the what strengths would we have to have,
what capacity, so that this would fit us, not what strength do we have, what would we have to have,
what does it require in terms of distinct competence. Competency, you know the question,
what do we do easily and whether that other people find very hard to do. What comes easy to our hands?
It's a very interesting question because it's a question people can ask.
The question what do we do bad? Their people's judgments are totally unreliable.
People tend to, you know, you all know the typical engineer who considers himself an expert in
management because he has read 28 management books the most dangerous man in management to have around
because you know all this theory but has absolutely no emphasis for it you all know
him don't you very common and you all know the typical accountant who believes that he really
very good with people people tend to uh it's not the scene he says but on the other hand people
also tend to underrate, rather overrate some other women. But what I'd be really good at,
on the basis of what comes easy to me. We are pretty good, look here we are,
and we have picked 185 shopping center locations last year, 175 were the right locations. And we
have those shopping center locations. We don't have better people than anybody else. We don't
do anything other people don't know we just have a feed don't don't ask me to explain you don't ask
me to pick a shopping center i wouldn't know where to start but somehow we all knew that this
location outside of akron ohio was a dog we didn't know why and sure enough it's been a dog and the
location in lorraine ohio that was a really good one and we were willing to pay 10 more to get into
it and in the first year we got it back don't ask me what we see at that people and when we see an
assortment of shoes see the ones that are going to sell see six out of ten better than man that's
what matters uh don't tell me what we see and we also know uh when this ad comes out at least
on easter monday we get the results in we know what the results uh but when it comes to making
she would be already better than anybody else it's a little worse than most that people and
one doesn't trust it but one checks all but you'll find that um maybe eight times out of ten
uh it's it's reliable enough you don't need precision uh when you ask people what are you
then you get first people don't agree everybody somebody will say that we absolutely know them
with the developing people. How can you say this immediately? So what is the assumption regarding
the strengths you need? So don't ask what do we have in town, that comes later. But what do you
need? Here we would go to Brazil, for instance, you're going to developing countries, you need a
financial capacity, I don't mean money, capacity for financial management, which you just don't
need if you operate within one development uh you don't you need wait because you can't move
money from brazil to india back from india to brazil very easily that's not the need
and you can't raise bank credit in india they're very easily and yet you can't have equity capital
from this country to india legally you can't and financially it matters so you need an ability to
managed in a financial environment which no American or no, for that matter, no German
or French financial man or Canadian or Japanese knows. They're very different. But maybe you
need an ability to work with people of different nationalities or centralize and have autonomy,
structural assistance management you need a buying ability quite different from what you probably
need in this market and so on what do you need and one also says what do we need and here what
says what assumptions about the outside would have to be found valid for this alternative
Here comes the question, what assumptions do we make about that young woman who is no
longer a teenager and yet is a young woman?
Now, what to be found valid for her to be our kind of a model?
What assumptions would we need for the do-nothing alternative to be a serious woman?
What assumptions would we need for the going into the young, but not teenage necessarily,
young, according to fashion market, which would, of course, include the fashion.
Fashion is not only wearing a pair.
Essentially, purchases which are not major purchases which you don't discuss with your
husband and your family.
which is you discuss it with the director, with Paul, and in which the, always being right, being in, corresponding to your own image of yourself is the essential.
That's what fashion is. What would the world have to be like for this to be right?
What about the outside environment? And keep those two separate.
In your discussion, you try to mix them up. So these are independent groups.
What we have to be able to do, and what does the world have to be like for this to be as serious as the best is here.
And distrust yourself if you come out with a perfect fit. That means you have cheated yourself.
See, my grandmother always used to say, everybody cheats their solidarity. She was absolutely right.
Someone always cheats. So if you come out absolutely right, then you know it's wrong. Nobody is that good.
Neither the environment nor the inside. Then you go to what you have been trying to say all along.
You try to analyze, and you try to find the gaps. Then one says, is it a gap we can fill?
Is it a gap we can fill?
Something we can either buy or acquire, same thing, let me say.
Technology. The easiest thing to buy is technology. First, it operates in any culture the same way.
you know a chisel operates exactly the same way under communism, under capitalism, under buddhism, under christianity
and the same is true of any other piece of physical technology
and therefore it is easy to transfer and it can always be bought
this is the secret of the basics of Japan
he said a hundred years ago the Japanese realized this
and therefore refused to spend any resources of their own on developing technology.
For a hundred years they spent it on social innovation, but not on thinking.
That, for a hundred years they figured, they were almost right at that time,
they would be far enough behind so that they could always buy.
And they also quite rightly figured that physical technology is very cheap, terribly cheap.
Largely because, essentially, one chisel doesn't compete with the other.
So, the technology one can always get.
Anything that exists is systematic, organized discipline.
It's fairly easy.
But when it comes to that ability to know which shopping center to go into,
Nobody can even explain to me what it is you are talking about.
Not the art, this is some theme which you get for having made enough mistakes over the years probably.
Some people get it. I can make mistakes, they don't stare at me.
Lack of people. So you need a combination of something in you that you see something other people don't see.
And a lot of perception of others.
And then the public can go on that you can't get it in a book, you can't get it in a checklist.
You either have it or you don't.
So one says, well how likely, how much, that's it, we can acquire it, how vital is it?
And then the outside one says, what do the outside have to be and how do we find out what it is?
And only then will the recovery of your empty five or ten activities attain to what we will remain.
It's serious.
And only then does one begin to act which is the right one.
The number of progressions.
You eliminate things that they do not need.
Some you eliminate gladly because nobody really wants to do it anyway.
Some you eliminate with a very happy heart because you all loved it over an hour and a half.
And then when I ask the kind of question, what does this mean in terms of objectives,
one begins with a quiz and a draft.
And now let me, for next week, or let me ask for two weeks, it can be a busy week.
And try to think through some of these strategies you mentioned in terms of
and what we need to know about the environment
so that one can then formulate a method, a systematic approach
to this thinking about strengths and weaknesses
and also to the thinking about the causes
these are the kind of things which one can live
and let me ask you
