No. You see a way of tackling a case, you tackle it. And never mind that in class we want about the difference. In our kind of work, there are no right answers. There are lots of wrong ones, but there are no one right answer.
If you can tame the beast and can ride him, that's what counts.
And let me say this is very much the realm of riding in the rodeo.
Nobody can stay up very long, but the one who stays up longest and breaks the fewest bones gets the prize.
Because every case you solve it, no sooner do you solve it than a new one comes along.
There is no end to the challenge.
All right, we'll do. Let me just make a note at this. Is that mic right? Was it too loud, too soft?
Okay, can you all hear me? Good. If it's, if you get any feedback, let me know. I've got it
controlled in there. So we decided to pick one. Now which one do you want to start with next week?
We picked one, four, and seven. In a way, one is almost logically the case that follows our
discussion now but if you want to vary the pace i don't care one is also a non-business service
organization let's do one all right will you be good enough for next week to read one and
one we might be able to do as much as we can do with it because there are certain things we again
we don't know we might be able to do in one session though if we need more we'll take more
so let's now go back to our western states electric supply company and remember last week
several of you proposed is now to ask the question what business in the environment which way is it
going uh and we very carefully did not go into details because let's see we are not trying to
run their business for here we don't know enough and nobody's paying us we don't know you said
what's the trend of the housing but it's really not the same as Lenox Hill with the
best news because it is in an area where there are loads of but the patients are
in the suburbs and the patients are but they're family and so Lenox Hill is dying and
Mount Sinai is having a hard time despite it for the same reason so in any
service bill they ask the demographics are not overall demographics are usually
of very limited interest we see for the obstetrician the national of this very unimportant here in
claremont how many young women because that his business is not national best way to try to go
down is of milk and the service to the national over demographic but your main problem is to
reduce them to local see yes sir yes but you have to reduce it to local terms you don't start with
local demographics but you have to turn a serious business you have to attend it
decide let me say that if you see national demographic you commit this let
me ask you what's the long short range what's the long range of it is fine
obviously for different they're short you see they are no long range that the
honors every decision has longish the short range is the time time during
which in the economy if you and I decide to be that's not a decision we have
meet our first commitment and taking out an option on the parcel of land. How long
from that till you can see it? But see as figures on fire, they're better than you and I,
still don't try to. Look, you have to get a zoning free market today with the
traffic. You define the long-range, but the time you'll need to get up, to get
your money back with compound interest, figure it at the cost. So you start out,
and don't let's talk today's cost of capital at which let me see no investment
possibly be just take years ago your minimum of eight nine percent and you
start out first with those five years in the hole now you may not need all the
money you can go into very nice refinements on this but that's not what
we are trying to do but just understand how one looks at it this is only one of
me we don't do it the way your accountant do that's the way to that's
the way to proving a capital investment maybe that's it at the point of the
exercise but it's the wrong way do it the way an economy and you would see
that you don't start out you said how many years does it have how much how
does one think what is the return required there's a very simple at all
which all of you should have learned in 4th grade and probably didn't.
Which is how one finds out how many years it takes to give an interest rate
for a given sum to double.
72, what do you do with 72?
What? No, divide it by 72.
You take 72 and divide it by the interest rate
and it gives you the number of years in which you give an amount.
It's one of, don't ask me for mathematics, I'm sure it exists.
It's a very simple rule.
So 8% is my pick date. I can divide 72 by 8. If you had said 6 and 3 quarters, I would have been in trouble.
Nine years. In nine years, the operation is so serious that Sears is going to prefabricate and store it.
So that we can recover.
All you need is a freeway that's planned being stopped by the environmentalists and you're in trouble.
or a shopping center with too many going up, or a neighborhood changing its characters.
Twenty years is a long time for modern neighborhoods to retain their character.
I don't know whether you know that Harlem in New York in the late 90s was still a neighborhood full of German carpets.
As late as the late 20s, black men were in the area.
But the word came out, so it was far easier.
But these demographics will reduce a location, and that's why Sears was built.
built by one man to do this and to a very unlikely place he had a bird that was in 1400 pages and
legend had it that germany certainly was never seen without if you had a three hour hair red
how to say this i'm making then making shoes a little cheaper particularly that's right you
could only and nobody choose the demand water you get more time on signing and so you make them all
you did was to change the tunes oh you didn't have to you know we all right let's go back to our we
talked about what is out there the only thing where are demographics and you said let's find
out b what are our strengths let me ask you how does one go about answering boys going to go you
see there's one wrong answer because that only shifts the look to somebody else but it doesn't
answer the question about here you've been asking them some very intelligent and now they come back
to you and say brilliant brother but how do i do are you then going to say don't how do you dare
insult me i'm only a policymaker you know that old story world war ii washington up the cockroach fly
and saying cut and they were almost and the farm and the fire here in the last row you mean all
over the world how do you ask this question in this case not an easy question to answer because
it's both the contractor and then the people who live in there the contractor is more important
but what you say you say let's start studying these for anybody else yes you are yeah well
you have to look you said we have to look that was a question we discussed last time that you
have to make sure you are not growing because market is disappearing and everybody else is
going out and you at the end you then have a monopoly on it more on the dinosaur uh you know
the heightens farewells and everybody goes up but you have to make sure of that part of this study
of being at the opportunity how do you come to mass in other states what are these practically
what are those fellows going to do when you come to them and say as you seem to imply let's study
what we study how we come let's study oh you mean yes that's very practical the weaknesses that's
that's the basic question the essence is what does the customer pay them for that's the only
way to answer the question what do we really do is what this occurs how do you but that was
the question don't add any more questions because we have asked one important one you have that
but you're not seeing you get there uh but very important and you just haven't seen it but
you have asked a lot very and now i'm going to spoil your friend by saying how do you go about
answers you mean appoint the summit conference a study group well probably or but how do they
go about you you're not simply saying get the concert how do they go about it you mean they
assign each question now let's go to work on the question why that comes much later if you
You know? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. How would you each do it in your business?
How does one come to grips with cosmic questions?
The analysis of your products, your services?
How many years?
You have a limited number of products that you're selling. Who are you selling your products to?
I don't know. Not that they are limited. I would imagine...
You have to look at the hardware jobs. Warehouse, probably not the proper way to having a limited number of products.
But the gentleman, why go through the exercise at home?
Questions are very easy to answer.
Very easy to answer.
What do you have to do now?
You know, not one of you would have the slightest problem doing it right in your...
Because you would not think what you would do.
You would say, we have got five courses of action on the table in front.
Let's look at each of them, what assumptions and the like,
in terms of what our business is, in terms of what our business...
in terms of what the world outside looks like, in which way it's going, in terms of what
others think.
And that way you would have no idea.
There's no thing you can do.
You can answer this probably in one 3-day session or so.
Here we're doing it.
Here we're not doing the analytics.
You would immediately start having opinions, and that's where you meet more people.
Here are four people knowledgeable about this, and each sees a difference.
Now, this simply means that each sees a difference.
Each sees differently what business should be.
Each sees the opportunity, and each sees the strengths and weaknesses.
Then one uses this sense by saying, what does each of those fellows assume?
And don't argue whether he is right or wrong.
That's the one thing.
The moment they look at Joe's proposed line of action, they begin to argue fiercely.
There ain't no money in the electrical supply business. It's all cutthroat. Or you can't get decent, you can't get electrical products that are reliable because their main producer is people directly.
We don't want to go into, we don't want to go into the big cities because, you know, we tried it once in San Francisco and we bought that business and it turned out it was a crook and we don't want to have any business that has anything to do.
and i know everybody in the big city is a crook so you have to discipline yourself not to argue
but to say here we know with that these are important questions in this way you also find out
