Now, who's going to say that they didn't lead a better life?
Well, Papa had his afflorescence and was a very happy man
and didn't work six hours a day and didn't run around, race around in a private airplane
and had time for his children and his nephew.
Ah, and they didn't starve.
They know when they can live.
When not taking action is fatal.
That means if you don't do something, you're going to...
You're going to have a degenerative condition.
What do you think?
Well, I'm saying that there may be to be a word you have a condition which your friend attended can only get with
Standing in the middle of a freeway like standing in the middle of the freeway. Well, that's fortunately a set liquidating one very fast
And incidentally, I'm not so sure what that the action decisions open to you are that it get the hell off the freeway
That the fear in the middle is not real fear, that's hypocrisy.
The people who had to develop decisions were the surgeons.
No surgical intervention without really known to die today.
Certainty of having a spring for healthy people to take and others to take.
I lost a friend having a mine of water removed by a healthy.
Dermatologists could notice that the adrenaline was gone.
And not very often, but often enough so that every surgeon has seen it.
There's no surgery. They're conservative things.
They're mad, mad.
Prognosis isn't very happy.
Nothing is likely to take care of it, even if it is one or something.
The decision range is in between.
There are a great number of things which you are not likely to be degenerative.
The child, the eight-year-old, the infected child, they aren't going to become better.
and likely and then they say he looks at the child the lot of cold and kelly healthy but
because of their chances indoors or winter the mother is also part of the problem uh when you
offer a child this doesn't look like a good person that's wait till the spring comes until it puts
on a little meat but but it's the only the only condition in which action is a necessary conflict
is in every other one inaction is a respect that belongs that's alternative number six
and let me see the way one starts one uses what you probably do that's why i said you wouldn't
do it is to toss away the experience and knowledge experience your this is your third class session
one doesn't do here are four men who know a business and an industry now they may see a
a lot of it, but one doesn't disregard it and says, let's make a study.
He says, these things are their conclusions from experience and reality.
And the chances are that they are wrong
because the chances are that anyone's conclusion, but the chances
are also that they contain large
elements of reality. In fact, it is sin. And also
the very fact, if you had gotten unanimity out of it,
then one would have said let's make a real study but you got this center so you do know and this
is incidentally what you're going to get you're not going to get the anonymity out of a group of
halfway intelligent agree on each of these not only sees in reality different assumptions
so here are five plus doing nothing six alternatives each of them implying
at different without what I what the other deals with sell a business never
sell it may sell the problem of that if you're not the business problem is not
being solved because somebody else now holds legal title nothing has changed
in there you may be out from that may be highly desirable do you really think
that what hasn't found out it by changing the legal title about our
problem never a solution there may be a solution to the syllabus all i know they have estate
problems sustained tax problems in which selling is the only way out that's not our problem but
then the buyer has exactly the same business the problem the problem hasn't gone away just because
money has passed hand for the legal title now you know each of these four men at least three
the first three because the fourth one has no as different is an exception what are our aspects in
terms of growth size the kind of management we like to work in which is terribly the question
what kind of environment do you really like because uh if you don't like the one that is
needed to manage your business you're going to get it uh probably not uh but if you ever come
to grips with him back you want uh well that is on family and i want it and now those two young
fellows whom young jordan who are not may not be terribly perfectly willing to be in the management
group of a family company but it is unlikely that maintaining family ownership is a major
object unlike i know you aren't told one of them has married one of the gales but become a member
of the mafia but uh i'm told they want nothing more to live with 20 years ago the president came
to see me did i tell you the story came to see me he knew a friend of mine not to have a shoulder to
weep and his he had not really made the decision a very big but he was close to it but he felt like
a traitor to the clan but the reason the only 15 father had 13 girls if your father had left the
business in such a way the child had and nobody had control needed seven to have eight and all
of them had married them insisted on the husband and i listened he said look you're insane of you
to sell this go and do it the question is kind of insane and it's always been our business and
oh there you go now the best you can no longer see an absolute must you accept at least tacitly
that if you have to are not going to insist on it and you accept implicitly that the criterion is
one eighth or one percent you are willing to face up to one eighth or one percent for maintaining
family control but no more because you can't afford if you're going to the texas you'll need
four and so practically what you're seeing if we can maintain family control without it's going to
cost us sure we'd like this but we aren't willing to pay for implicitly look at the capital to
figure them out and possibly generated internally it is possible but grotesquely unwise to depend
with that kind of expansion on short-term borrowing in fact it isn't really today anymore
it was uh that kind of expansion means somehow getting expertise long-term debt with all the
power of expressing so other specs can you really maintain this kind of management that which of the
has a difference quite consciously and maybe not yet on one way or another both ways not just one
but yeah and one use it one doesn't start out with study strap and you don't need it you have
six different definitions on the board in front of you not spelled out but clearly implied
and not hard to find you don't ask what should our business be in the abstract because again
And you probably don't have, you may stumble over something, analyzing the proposed, but you have a number of them. You don't, you, what they each assume, the development of them all, each assume, some words, maybe not the same, maybe the same, that you don't know.
We'll soon find out. But they're sure each assume different strengths. They have different specifics.
Now let me say that manufacturer wants to integrate backward into making on least a standard product.
Comes very close to total inaction. Not saying we we aren't going to move any place, but that's a
minimal movement. It says no capital investment, no product risk, no expansion of territory.
a little backward integration so that we have a little cover over supply and quality and
make a little more at the price of but in effect this is almost we sit pretty as we are why should
we move uh not entirely but look if there were more then the correlation would then the more
private the better and we started out by saying that you can rank the chain to tailor in order
of not by their because their own you mean of those that one third of you that were here before
i i died in vain and the profit is product profit margin in other words if your profit margin is six
and you're spending capital over 1.8 times you know me the profit and if your profit margin is
six and yet you know it's 0.8 the profit of private practice the trans vanity we don't and
this is the new boss of kroger just came in i think it's the four-stop management in six years
from such highly enjoyable be very pleasant and i simply announced you're going to get out of
national of private brands the first one you may have a chance and in a way for a distributor to
own his manufacturer even if he doesn't invest cash he invests a lot otherwise and if one does it one
better do it the sears way essentially sears controls the investment but doesn't own money
but to get out of one because then this are committed to full employment for them then
there is pressure at the top all right we bought that wood burning stove that's the sears story
Well, you know, wood-burning stoves have been slowly going out of fashion.
They may be coming back, but that was another matter.
And here was the country's largest wood-burning stove plant,
incidentally getting a larger and larger share of the market.
And that Sears buyer was desperate.
Here we sunk $4 million, so what?
Speaking of days when Sears was $3, $4 billion business, maybe.
But still, that had to be written off.
the board of directors and so to throw business their way so he threw gas range went out of the
gas range business because those people didn't know how to make a gas and in a very hasty rescue
action they got willful to take it over so that word will close step it off and willful had been
making gas ranges for 20 years he knew how uh and electric uh but you become the prisoner even if
The amount of money is there, the amount of ego is there, the social pressure on you is in there, and it is not a very small, a much, apart from fact it essentially is a proposal to do nothing but be feverishly busy doing it, and distrust one either does or one isn't afraid of, say, we don't have, the small thing is nothing, maybe three years from now, yes, but now no, don't be afraid, don't be afraid of being afraid.
called and dynamic there are times wise to be undynamic one needs eight hours sleep but it's
not at all dynamic but try to get by without it you'll soon see what happens to the rest of the
dynamic and so so that is a very suspect but i was surprised that none of you picked it up but i said
can be eliminated one can eliminate a strategy that is not a emphasis i'm not saying it's wrong
but it is essentially this fellow says it i don't think we should be to optimize what we
Manages as well as we know how big enough for all the advantages of size and not just the headaches and that they're perfectly respectable.
And he may be the only realistic man in the crowd.
He has looked at himself and he has looked at associates and said, we have reached the level of our competence.
From now on it's going to be the Peter Principle.
What he is not is putting the force front on and one eliminates.
This is not a genuine strategy, a way of saying minimal action.
Well, the minimal action is, let's look at doing nothing, serious.
But in effect, one eliminates strategies that are not.
In World War II, MacArthur, the next island hopping operation,
the old man who had some very dubious points, but also some experience,
had a habit of sit-side, which was not.
In that staff meeting, it began with MacArthur making a decision that we were ready to move.
And then he turned around and said, we're next.
We have a lot of intelligence.
And here we know about the oceanographic condition.
And here is what we get as against it.
And so the finding narrowed it down to during which time the old man had asked a question.
question that a German map is any better than the German maps. We have used very clear one look at
New Guinea and said nobody's ever seen it to fight you. What is any military map for? Well it was no
longer fashionable in the 19th century when the Germans had New Guinea to write into a map here
elephants were. So they put in mountains and streams and valleys and towns. They went in
inland for five miles met the first first aborigines decided to look for all the fears
as indeed they do and it's not healthy from then on that it's their maps comfortably on the ship
and unbelievable only nobody had ever been there quite clearly so he would ask him are you going
to get there before different and nobody had been there and so on and so questions called
they have to dump their home and then it was down to two or three and then you would always ask
which of these beach heads have a beat because they had nothing danger the land and the beaches
which you can't expand because there is no beach we did it the two times we did it that was our
mr berlin uh and is there a beach or is there just a beach and then the fact that you can get it
cheaply and easily but then leading and remember that one eliminate the non-serious ones is a real
action that is leading or is it an elaborate way of saying don't let's do anything well then let's
so we better go let me say uh use what these people have as your starting point because then
if you ask him you ask it but all right you want to go into texas what do you assume is our business
Then you get the answer.
