They very rarely have in this country. They never have in the rest of the world.
So one looks at it, and this is one of the importance of not what business are.
And so one goes down the list, what assumptions are there, what expectations, what's been the life.
And then one looks, and then one may see that the plumbing business isn't serious.
We know nothing about it, that our strengths do not extend to it.
You find that our strength is product strength, yes. Our strength is essentially being in the right place at the right time.
The plumbing business might be the same business we are in. It's just bigger ticket items. That's all it is.
And you may have to invest more money in your warehouse as a result. I don't know. I don't know a thing about your business.
But if you find that your strength is exactly that you are not there, you have no business in the big city. You're a supplier, a statistical outlet. And maybe the big city is all for it. Maybe there you have to compete.
What you offer is convenience, friendliness, neighborliness, and the time-saving of a trip to the city.
But none of these things cut much ice in the big city.
You don't have to make the trip to the big city. You're already there.
In the big city, you don't have the small craftsmen, the small local men, the bulk of your business.
Maybe the bulk of the business is the mass-builder.
That's very little offered.
Now, mobile home may be quite a batch in which they have great inventory low
and yet don't let on being able to keep the line running
so that the fellow who takes on the responsibility to the inventory
at 8.15 in the morning so that he can start at 8.30.
He doesn't want it a day earlier because he has no place to put it the day he uses it.
And maybe there are no accidents, and all mobile home operations are in genuinely small town operations.
But that kind of labor, maybe that fits in, I don't know.
But don't have a set down what is implied in this talk with the outs.
It is far easier to, you know, some affiliates don't allow anybody to have.
He can only freeze him. He can only then get to the point where he has to defend.
And you don't want to allow anybody to freeze prematurely.
So when anybody wants to express an opinion,
does anybody know who is the great master of the one country
where this is the essence of the decision?
You don't allow anybody to have an opinion
until you understand what is the Japanese.
They call it consensus.
It's nothing to do with one of these.
It meant that nobody is ready to exactly where everybody stands.
But nobody has said.
Nobody is face going.
You also know what they did. But you also understand that the Japanese didn't end up with this.
But, in my story, we said no name.
The first foreign stop that the Canadians told them that this order, they said, all right, we'll start with no name.
It's just the way they did it.
You see how this business has grown to $60 million.
Two outlets run, and its strength consists in being both local.
The electrician, this is an entirely local.
All right, he may have a cap in his office that says Western.
And his girl may know that that's the name of the company
before she writes out, for Joe, this is Bill for Dick.
And he may know that's 199 other branches,
but if he doesn't know it's immaterial,
then he doesn't do business there and has no attention.
At the same time, its strength constantly depends on central buying,
central inventory, central logistics, central systems.
Can you tell me what this demands in terms of basic management structure? Where is your top management?
Do you want to run it like Sears? Can you run it like Sears?
You have a mom and pop store in every little town, don't you?
And you want mom and pop to work, what, 18 hours a day?
But you want them to consider it their business.
Where is the steady compensation? How do you handle compensation?
In a way, unless that fellow in Casco, and don't ask me, or Pocatello, sees himself as running that business.
Are you likely to move a man from Pocatello to, I wouldn't say no way, but do not.
When you open it, no, when you open, would you open a new branch with anybody who hasn't run a branch?
I think you'd think somebody who's been running a branch for a few years.
because it's easier to put the assistant or the segment in to run that branch.
And opening a territory requires a little more than this.
And so it's probably a fair amount of it,
but not to move a man like this into a big city.
I don't think you would, I don't think.
But you wanted to feel this is my branch.
It has very real implications for your compensation.
You have to have business and you have to make at least as much as if you own it
and yet have varied and then a franchise is a big business the greatest danger of such a business
let me say is that you build yourself an office building and in the name of decentralization
once a year for temple you can cut prices the rest requires that consultation you can't assign
anybody he can't say i need that you're sold so and this means so many salesmen period if you
think you need fewer well maybe his own his own manager has the right to allow you to have one
fewer if you need more you better go on the way to at least uh now it's a little personality
but and even so there's more that is the mother you have today nice colors and lighting and soft
music where their manager that's the only modern art allowed a playboy well enough girls you don't
look like the Chase Manhattan Bank, which Biden won or not. In a business like this,
they're spirited. You better make sure that head office, you better, all right, you have a private
plane that makes sense because you're needed to 200 places, not one of which is near to a major
airport, and you have to maintain personal face-to-face relationships with those 200.
Those boys up there have a very simple rule. Every store manager sees a member of top management of
central office man at least once a month they're not just pretending and not in venetian but in
his looking they're very sound for that kind of a business uh but it's a certain limitations on
uncle joe does much more at age in his 80s does most of that by the way actual cut it be three
four three stores a day he's the one who keeps the company pain busy all the time he lives in
families all grown up he hasn't had much things for his wife for a long time
And he loves, you see him in the head office, he's a tired old man, go after him, get out of that place, he is young, brisk, but does that mean the huge big office? He hangs even Van Gogh's sunflowers there. That's already probably dangerous.
And you don't have an executive dining room, and you don't have an executive men's room.
You run a very bare, for example, you sit alone, and if you have a huge big office,
instead of the old beat-up army green steel desk board of an army and surplus heap,
You'll have fine furniture by trailer or what have you.
Do you think that the branches trade in their green this or something could cost 600 bucks a piece instead of 6 or 16?
So you have a city, this, that, that, building.
Ah, as we say, I don't think the general world thought that how the two people who built the modern city would have built that skyscraper.
They were very controversial, had nothing.
they talked about the great importance of the profit sharing in encouraging the branch managers
and all their people to keep costs down but they were very conscious of the fact that what really
kept costs down was that when you visited general woods who was a legendary figure he sat down in
the chair he said be careful the leg is broke yeah and that was the way his office looked
if you think that one of the better showmen of the century if you think that he didn't know what
he was doing you didn't know the old man he knew exactly what they were and then the fellow went
back to minton georgia with the big promotion to the old manager this is when you first saw
the general got the karate gear pinned on you know and you went back and you went around the
stores and you said to your storm and you really think you are going to let you have two workforce
that she is in the office my general wants doesn't have a single one so if you want this
a business that would look and run the way it should be running, it's a small business, you have to set the example. Very few people realize it. If you don't set the example, people measure themselves by their distance from the top.
And if you have to look at that, you probably know that the Chase Bank has been doing very badly, I don't think, compared to the first city, even worse than the Bank of America, which took some doings a lot.
And I once asked one of the senior, older Chase Bank men, why, and I expected to hear David Rockefeller is no banker, which you're maybe not, but he expanded, but he said, look, I used to know, that was not the truth of London, when I came back, I always ordered new figures, I measured myself against David's office, which is what you expect, you know, we all now know Rockefeller finances better than they do, obviously, and more than I really want to know about them.
what you can imagine what an office looks like can't you uh uh and if you are the
senior man in this law it's the senior office was of the german offices which in turn was the
largest market so nobody would kind of say well he sits on top of 23 billion deposits but i sit
on top of eight or five and you measure it that way you trade in your furniture why probably
that has something also to do with the fact that no postmaster has shown a great desire to cut costs.
People look, one is very visible at the top. And on the one hand, the people in the Chase Bank want their boss to represent.
And if he in the Chase Bank were to live in a pigsty, they would represent him.
But on the other hand, they also measure their own style by the distance to find the balance.
And when you want your local offices to be very cost-conscious and to be run as small businesses,
you better make sure that you don't run your central office on a different plan or a different style,
because you're going to be emitting.
So these are certain considerations in management.
You need to see in this kind of a business, you peak very often so that they don't get the feeling that they are in the link. You are support. Your computer and your buying and your credit card itself are costs. They are the only problem and you are support. So they need, maybe they don't need a monthly visit, but it's not a bad idea.
But they need to be emphasized constantly.
You run this business.
All we can do is to enable you to run.
But the business in Pasco, not because that's democratic,
but because business exists.
That fellow in Pasco exists, but probably knew about it.
He needs a little help, but not the hell of a lot.
But other than that, he, all right, he may make a little less money on his own.
He'll get by in years.
Because that's what most of those houses in the past were of this world at all.
They're owned by a local high school boy.
Somehow managed to get a little money together.
Enough to buy a truck.
And he's running that kind of a business with his wife as a bookkeeper.
He hires his nephews to come in after school.
He isn't getting rich, but he doesn't overwork, perhaps.
is his busy day, but Sunday and Monday. And he remains there of the local church or of the local pub, both, and active in the Kiwanis and maybe in the Boy Scouts.
Not a bad life, but he doesn't look upon his business, his living, too significant, probably a better one than he could have had.
And the other way it beats farming, it's not one-tenth as strenuous as that, and doesn't require as much capital.
You always have congenial company and Joe puts up with his truck to pick up the toilet
Even though you have it in stock isn't racing off. Have you ever seen a plumber race off?
Swaps the latest gossip. You might say that the biggest means and it's by no means simple that you can do so
without essentially
Endangering the major success. Okay next week what is it? Case one. We are moving out of
a profitable wholesale house
into a totally unprofitable
financial field.
