We have three things we can do the next hour and a half finishing up this case.
We can spend a little time on fewer speculations about these strategies,
which of those not appear the right ones to you,
but what kind of implications each of them has in terms of a basic assumption,
basic expectations and specifications,
and kind of implications, what you have to do to make it work.
We can spend some time on the related questions,
which really make sense only after we have decided
which are serious alternatives,
of what the consequences for management
and management structure are there.
Can they go on?
What are the essentials of their management system or structure
more structure, which I should maintain,
and what are the things that will have to change.
And we can spend, and we'll spend,
some time on what have we learned from this case.
We are not that very interested in running
an electrical supply business, at least I am not.
I know when I'm well off.
But what have we learned in strategy decisions, strategy
problems uh and i think we might start out with the question looking at those few serious
strategies and let me see this strategies we have ruled out now we have said there's a serious
strategy which is do nothing always that manufacturing thing is a minor variation
that's the fact essentially keeps the business we have optimized maybe manufacturing a few things
this a way to optimize it. Maybe there are other ways of optimizing. But open a fewer branch here
where we see in Pasco, Washington, an opportunity and if we can buy a decent house in Denver,
we'll buy it. If not, we'll stay out of Denver and we manage what we have and we get the most
out of it. We have something that is manageable and that we know how to manage beyond that we
don't. That's strategy one. Strategy two is we know our territory and there is no reason why
we should not parallel our system. Where is one that distributes plumbing supplies? The same end
user, not the same customer necessarily, though in many cases the same in our territory. And you
You know, you need one as badly as the other in construction.
You can't. These are the two things you need.
You might say it's perhaps a little
more likely that the American population will go back
to the outdoor privy than that it will go back to living in a tent.
But not much more likely. It's a risk I'm willing to take, aren't you?
Or anybody worried about taking that risk of
population going to Alto Previz. Well, if we wanted to, the environmentalists wouldn't let us,
and so it's a risk I'm willing to take. And as long as they don't go back to Alto Previz and
they're washing in the brook, or they're not washing at all, you see, that is very realized
that our ancestors didn't switch from washing in the brook to washing with running
hot water they didn't wash it so as long as they don't do any such radical things and it's not very
likely yet uh then the same fellow who buys electrical wiring and switches and plugs and
what have you uh also has to buy pipe and all the things you need sinks all the things you need for
plumbing and we know the places maybe we don't have the plumbing contractor the different person
from the electrical contractor uh though in many places they are the same or the same man
uses higher post plumbers and electricians the small builder but we do know kind of business
we understand it and you know probably we have to learn it take a year or two but that's all
and we stay in our territory uh essentially we have a stock of trained people because there are
really no good reasons why a fellow who will learn to run an electrical wholesale house
in a small town in oregon can't fairly fast learn to run a plumbing supply house
sure their product problems but that gives him a catalog uh and the credit problem is the same
no great problem but we can parallel or we can again stay in the same territory
going to that 40% of what have you maybe have of the market in the territory we
aren't in which is the big city the larger the center market or we can
forget territories and look for a market, a society, and a climate that is very
similar to the one we have learned to operate in, but has not yet been tacked.
Whether the backyard is to be as that closed, the most obvious one would be the Texan
Texas area, where it's been very rapid urban growth. Not, as you seem to think, more
concentrated in Dallas, not even all concentrated in Dallas, in Houston.
Actually, the smaller cities, I mean, places, maybe a fair of them, but you
shouldn't want to be there, like Lubbock, and Midland, and Odessa, much faster,
or Beaumont, or Port Arthur, where the systematic deconversion of haphazard
loafer or not even businesses suppliers into an organized and managed business
as yet can yet had happened yet so we have an opportunity we know how to do
and that let's associate all the available strategies on the you and we
know you want to know not which is right for us but what does each assume and
what does each imply? How would you go tackling it? How would you go analyzing a strategy
to find out what's really in it? May I please say that all of you suffer from the same terrible
effect. You try to be intelligent. You are afraid of the simple. Don't. It is terribly
easy to be intelligent and almost always wrong. Be simple. One can always upgrade, you know.
I can always see why that's an obvious question.
I don't know such thing.
Next one.
But it's very hard to climb down from the level in which you operate to where you make sense.
So don't try to...
We can't hear you, I'm sorry.
I don't think that the plumbing thing...
Can you all hear? Good.
For 10 years. 10 years maximum.
Because that little shop in Wenatchee where they started out from 10 years ago had no sex strength.
It is the same type of business.
Do you mind if I turn hopefully pedantic and say we aren't ready to have opinions, we are
now ready at most to say that is a typical way management acts and that's why they do not stop
to say objectively what's in each of these and till we know this nobody is allowed to you put
it down and look at it you see there are two questions first when you hear a case like what
do we know and puts it down on people and looks at because you'll be surprised to disregard what
you know and put instead what you think it's terribly easy the temptation is overwhelming
and unless you force yourself i'm sorry to be very good one is for that there are certain areas in
which one is never brilliant diagnosis is an area in which one is never brilliant for christ's sake
beware the brilliant diagnostician. But unlike the MDs, we unfortunately do not
bury our MDs. They stay around. So the brilliant diagnostician is protected. No
longer quite as much as you asked before the malpractice, but still adequate. We
are not. So don't be brilliant. And so what do we know? And one puts it down on
paper, and someone looks at it and says, my God, I didn't realize it. In fact, I was quite sure.
Secondly, one says, all righty. One says, what do they know? They're people. That's real. See,
but they also seem to imply that what means God wants salesmen and a warehouse.
Managementally, that is the system. That's why it works. That's a merit that non-merchant can go
If you were a merchant, it's a good excuse for not being a merchant.
But who knows his customers who are also in the small town?
Not Freitas, isn't he?
Kaufmann and Braun.
This is a small local contractor who has a remodeling job here,
and a condominium here, and row house there.
Also not a captain of industry.
And if he wanted to be one, he wouldn't have gone into these inns.
The way I have a paper bag.
He's just a local salesman and delivery man.
You marry that, because that you can get in from the local high school, no problem.
From the kids who come, there's adequate of them, can make a decent living, never move
out of town, have to make no decisions.
What decision does that fellow make?
He makes the great decision that Joe and Jim both put up at the same loading dock at the
same time, whom, as they say, good morning to first.
the extent of his decisions. Beyond this, no decision. He either got the merchandise in stock or he ain't got it.
And if he ain't got it in stock, he knows two things. He knows, because it's in his book,
that this, whatever it is, T-joint or what have you, will do the job for what the fellow wants,
and that we have in stock. So you give him that. Or there's a telephone and you call up
Pasco or the nearest site, the bigger large town, and say to your colleagues,
say, have you got no trained nobody that manages standard jobs?
The system couldn't operate.
Who the hell can have 200 managers?
General Motors doesn't have that many.
There's a hell of a lot of managers.
If you really mean managers.
General Motors has a lot of professionals and technicians and very few managers,
probably more.
It's a little bigger than this.
So, the only one who assumes that we have managers whom we can move is exactly the fellow.
And don't assume that just because it is the same thing in San Francisco, it is in Corona down here.
Maybe the environment makes all the difference.
The only place where one can assume the environment to be relatively unimportant is a manufacturing plant
for the simple reason that it does not produce for the environment.
but its market is elsewhere. Well, otherwise the market there for Chico, Chino down here
is a very different environment from San Diego. I don't know, but don't assume. What your
job is to bring out what the other person assumes, and then to ask him, do you really
mean that? And six times out of ten, he'll say, hell no, I didn't realize that. And I
I don't think it's right. He knows the condition. You don't. But he may not have thought, he may not have thought it through, and he may also have had opinion rather than analysis.
So put down what each assumes. Coldly, analytically, anybody says, I don't think that's right, say down five. We aren't ready. That comes late.
At the present moment, nobody has enough.
We are putting down what's implicit in these proposed courses of action.
Then we're going to look at them and say, do we really mean it?
You see, one does this.
In early 1960s, a very large university came to me with expansion plans, alternatives, violence.
And it took me a long time to get those very learned people to the point where they were willing to think.
Finally, I got them to the point where I said, what are the basic assumptions regarding students and student population, and got out the assumption. And I said, you know, do you really mean it? Because what's implied in your assumption, essentially, is that by the year 1995 or thereabouts, you will not be admitted to first grade unless you first have a PhD.
He could consider that probable, but he had assumed it was an exponential expansion, which everybody is assuming.
One time one looked at demographics and one got some, and I was one of the first ones to predict the expansion.
When I predicted it, it was the seventh expansion of the human population to nine million people in the mid-seventies.
I was considered insane, but it was a very simple thing.
simple. You all had to look at Bill's figures. But five years later, it became clearly clear
that, like every other exponential curve, this also would not keep on growing forever.
And the only question was, when would it plateau? And one could disagree on three to five years,
but in 1880, pessimists around 1975, 76. But unless, because then you argue like that distinguished
that obviously going to college is good and therefore everybody will have to, but it is purely an emotional
I would argue that just because we like to become a national university when we are a regional one
and the only chance we have of becoming a national is for the total student population to become big enough
because we aren't going to take it away from Harvard, Princeton, Chicago and so on
Therefore it has to grow, because we want to be a national university, which is the way this distinguished university president in effect argued. He didn't realize it.
If you have not realized it in Boston, tell me. And I was still, I forced him and what very big metropolitan university he reduced to nine.
realized that it was in trouble, and as a result it survived. It's very, very over-expanded,
undefended, over-expanded, and without any breath to spare, and no one really left.
Not because anybody was right, but because force yourself, otherwise you are making mistakes,
otherwise you do the things that sound, you do the things that are virtuous, and virtue is the
most dangerous of all vices. I didn't say that in force long ago. I wish I had.
And that's it. So force yourself to go through what do we assume and start out
first outside. What do we assume will happen? Well, in this particular case, what's
the most inside? Underlying all these assumptions. It's demographic. So what do we
Now there are very real assumptions here regarding not the size of the population, but where it will be.
Here we are in the small towns, if you mean that literally, then we are in the wrong place.
Anybody know enough about population trends to see how the American population has been moving for a long time?
Here we are beginning to look very much like the solar system.
system a lot of fairly loose constellations with empty space between the inner city is getting
empty though they are the first signs of a possible reversal after but wait 10 more years before you
better and the countryside is getting to be empty and in between the metropolitan area which
essentially in terms of land use is in between the two and in terms of population density
is closer to the it's closer to the metropolitan area than about two sets of the way
that's where the population is which fairly high density but not urban density uh if you fly over
los angeles one of those little commuter planes you realize that most of the time you see empty
space don't you uh a lot of it and yet it is densely populated you're never more than three
or four miles away from a cluster of houses uh but at the same time by with some exceptions the most
of the outstanding uh these metropolitan areas are not really organized towards a center they're
organized towards the periphery so all we grossly out so now then from the around and the shopping
center the periphery that's where it's easy to get to and easy to get from now you may say that
the petroleum energy problem with changes it might believe me more important probably
one at least is the fact that so many young couples postpone children and are therefore not
what so far there has been very little slackening of the preference for the single family or not of
the demand that is lacking of demand but that's largely cannot in the family home crisis they've
gonna much faster than either mobile home or multi-dwelling then it doesn't work there may
be a change but so far this hasn't happened and therefore uh maybe if our friends are in small
towns it's really in small towns and not in the small town like ontario here next door pomona or
corona or monrovia which are small towns legally but not demographically there are metropolitan
areas. If they are really in small towns, they are probably in the wrong place. There is no sign of a
revival of the small town, while some new factors might lead to a revival of the core city. Mass
transportation, for instance, if it really comes, which almost inevitably means rigid transportation.
You can go from place A to place B, but with the automobile you can go from place N to any other
That's why some of us are not convinced yet that mass transportation, A, makes any sense, and B, will happen.
Well, I'm convinced we're going to spend a lot of money on it. That's easy.
But what the automobile gives you is that freedom to go where you want to go.
And in a streetcar, you know, you go where the streetcar wants to go, or a train, or a bus.
And so, and the example, where would you go to look for the best mass transportation system in the world?
What? Where?
Moscow is very poor.
Moscow has a short subway line and that's it.
Tokyo.
Tokyo.
Now, Tokyo has easily the best mass transportation.
And the wildest department in and out of the inner city has increased 28%.
The largest increase in steadily going.
And it's also the most polluted.
No. And the reason is not that this is very good, but that Japanese are willing to spend an hour in the traffic jam so as not to have to fight their way to a subway station or what have you, but to get from where they want to start their home to where they want to go their work.
And you may say this is irrational, but don't ever say that about others and say, what is irrationality? And maybe it doesn't take long, it takes long, but maybe, but it's more comfortable.
And then you have, above all, you have freedom.
You don't always follow an arrow.
So maybe that in a very densely crowded place like Japan,
in a very socially very rigid place,
that freedom you have so that you can there decide
it's only to take one overcrowded back road as against another one.
It's worth something.
So don't start out with demographics here.
What do they assume? What are the opportunities?
We don't know enough about them.
They may be in the right place, but we don't know.
When they say small town, they may mean the Ontarians and Covinas and what have you.
We don't know.
But they may also mean what has historically been meant by a small town,
something on the Pennsylvania Railroad or on the Santa Fe.
And you don't know.
So what do they assume?
Where's the population going to be?
There is very little evidence that it is going to be in the small town and even less that it is going to be in the rural areas.
And what do these strategies assume in respect to this one fact of which we cannot have to speculate.
There is good, solid evidence.
And what does it assume regarding the spending habits of the same people?
And that is where it is most important to realize that our friends are not in the housing market,
but are in the housing ecosystem.
The two, anybody know what I'm saying?
Anybody know the historical facts of those two, this country and the rest of the world?
Historically, the American behavior has been totally different from the rest of the world.
Historically, in this country, we have had 250 unbroken, even in severe depression times,
towards more living space. The colonial house was, in terms of living space, very small. You buy an
old one in Vermont, you find out, then you realize that they lived there with 18 children. The amount,
the share of disposable income that goes on housing equipment has fluctuated very sharply.
Went up in the federal period very sharply, the golden age of the furniture maker in America,
where he got a lot of money the people were willing to spend in very poor houses most of
those houses were very a lot of money on good went down very sharply the civil war
climbed up very slowly in 1900 collapsed but down very sharply in the age of the grand rapids
orange play if it was that good and uh fluctuating uh been going up fairly steeply since world war
to uh how many one bathroom houses do you now know equally if you were a builder in the suburbs
would you build your one bathroom house no but in the 20s was standard uh five eight room houses
with one bathroom the car garage today we're doing the three bedroom house pictures well the 20s
still without garage was not that uncommon and so on and so forth one plug a bedroom room going up
fairly fast however to a continuing expansion of cubic space square meter square feet per person
living space there is evidence now but it's very early when the rest of the world that we see there
has been no comfort expansion of living space per person the japanese living space per person
is almost the same it was 250 years ago and if you think if you that's why you feel so cramped
but essentially we know that the measures which more than 60 planners in 18th century japan
used when they rebuilt tokyo which built down every 20 every 20 years with a good nice fire
that destroyed most of uh then it was rebuilt to standards and the standards are exactly what
japanese still live in terms of living uh and uh essentially six that a sixth time room that's just
enough to uh and in europe the increase has been very small the council houses the british
government has been the last have exactly the same living space as their model laborers cottage
the humanitarian landlord of 1800 with you know very romantic satchel of women infested
and heated no running water but very romantic wild roses but that's very little uh the same
living space account now they have more they have bathroom they have electric light on they have no
heat an open fireplace electric fire but the same space and the same is true with the workers house
in amsterdam or in sweden uh in no increase in living space but a tremendous increase in the
amount of money that goes inside the house that's where the in the rest of the world the increase
has gone and there's evidence in this country that we are at a very much higher level because we have
almost three times the square feet of the japanese and almost two times those of the europeans
uh about almost four times those of the russians uh and so that's it maybe has a relationship
investment inside two times as much proportionately spent on the inside of sehat having a contract
apart because of shelly so much but also because it's planned so much better so that the same
which the footage gives you.
