Last week we said we'd start on the case of the Worldwide Youth Exchange Federation,
a public service student exchange, remember?
And so who wants to lead off?
You know, at the end it asks a question whether you think there is any point in raising fundamentals
or whether one should just do what our fellow president of that institution, a new one,
Hugh Williamson is doing and go around and look for what are the things, you are very successful, what are the things we need to do to continue to be successful. You wanted to come into the lady and back there. Why go to all the trouble and just be disagreeable when you can have it easy?
You know, that's being very disagreeable. Let me say, you're committing cardinal sin number one. You argue with success. That is the most important thing one can do.
uh can we develop from what the lady i'm afraid i don't know your name it's and that's i feel
terribly kind of badly about not knowing names i'm not very good at names there's so many
so will you please keep on telling me telling us your name right thanks uh copenhagen oh
uh will you will you try to develop from what mrs missou mrs copenhagen said general rules
when does one become disagreeable and ask what is our business what should it be are there any
rules when this is in order here is a business or good quality business it isn't an organization
that's been eminently successful fabulous wouldn't you say so and here's somebody is nasty and
person that says stop racing around think a little bit that is never
present and incidentally never welcome the human animal does not not give it to
unless to into necessary thinking but doesn't like it when is this in order
can one see general rules when one should always do it whether one likes it
are not yes sir yeah that's what they set out to do to set out to do isn't it uh yeah that's what
they said how to do even though they did it for a reason beyond this but they set out to organize
student exchange and finances and i don't think that back 20 years 25 years ago if anybody had
told them the volume they'd handled they would have did if anybody had told them that 93 or
whatever percentage you have in there of their clients are very satisfied they wouldn't have
believed it to get parents and if anybody had told them that the dropout rate is nil
these were their measure we say does it strike you that there's something very unusual in this
story have you ever heard of a public services it's kind that has been very rare most of them
believe that good intentions are all that's needed. But you ask most of the adoption agents,
how do you measure how successful? They have no idea. They can tell you how many man hours or
woman hours they put in, efforts. But measurements in public service institutions are very uncommon.
One of their problems. And let me say, they always tell you, we are not a business. Our results are
not quantifiable, and that is bluntly blown. If you define your objective, you can measure.
Let me say it is very hard to measure how many souls the minister of St. Ambrose Episcopal Church
saves. That bookkeeping is not done in that church. But it is very easy to count how many
kids come to Sunday school and he assumes axiomatically that there's a connection.
That if you define to get the young people into the church, that we know how to measure. It is
a very, anybody know enough about the English open classroom to know why it's successful,
to reason why it's successful? Well one is that parents aren't allowed near any English. Parents
are stranger than foreigners and enemies and are allowed in once a year when the headmistress had
tea but that she only does during vacation when they need a fact and that is not an unimportant
system parents are simply not constituency and the other reason is that it is a strictly
behaviorist dream scenario behavior modification aimed at one goal only that kids by the end of
to say here can read it is a bit concerned with character development it isn't a bit concerned
with making it out of still it isn't a bit concerned writing don't kill it it's focused
exclusively on learning to in a strict behavior behavior is with the one great advance over skinner
let's say that six-year-old child knows more about his or her own rhythm and attention span
and then we do and so let's each work but strictly and program behavior with his but he but he writes
a program but it's a program based on the typical behaviorist repetition reaffirmation revalidation
positive reading which nothing cognitive about that's one reason why it doesn't work in this
kind of being picked up in this country whether or not being picked up by cognitive it isn't at all
and but it is focused on learning to read and nothing else and that we know how to measure
we say we do not know the next step but the english open classroom is not a bit interested
we did not have an interest in how many children will voluntarily then continue to read.
They're interested in the skill, and if you can define your objectives that clearly, you can
measure. And the main problem with voluntary, particularly with philanthropic institutions,
is that they are not willing or able to define their objectives that clearly, and therefore
don't measure. That's one of their problems. And maybe they should. It's not that simple.
But it isn't true that the difference between a business and a non-business is measurability.
We can measure in non-businesses not the same things necessarily as in the business,
but we can measure attainment objectives. What we need to do is first define the objectives
and then see through what's a proper, appropriate measurement, what he can measure.
But you have to make up your mind what the objective's of.
And this is fairly unusual, in that 20 odd years ago,
before your time and my time and Hugh Williamson's time,
somebody in there said,
well, what are the right measurements for our accomplishment?
And incidentally, the measurements tell you.
define their objective change that they did what father keister down at san ambrose does
namely to say all i can do is get them into sunday school the rest is up to the good lord
but if i can't get them into sunday school the good lord won't get the chance and so i measure
now i don't keep those for how many souls i see but i can keep books about sunday school attendance
and i assume there is a connection and so these people said we assume there is a connection
between student exchange and international understanding the evidence is no better nor worse
than that for the connection between sunday school attendance and salvation
about the same level of fragmentary evidence but you may say you're unlikely to do any
home and so you may do some good. So clearly these good people define their objective as
student exchange and in terms of that they've been very successful. And now somebody comes
and says you don't, I can't figure out what's your business, they're trying to figure out,
you're not telling me. And until you can think that through there is very little point
working on this or on that need, because you don't know whether these are the real and relevant needs.
What do you think of that? What stage in the development of a business or an organization does one accept the need,
fundamental and searching, which will inevitably, in these questions, inevitably produce dissent in the organization,
Inevitably produce friction and conflict. Inevitably produce a very disagreeable need for risky decisions.
I cannot leave well enough alone and go on to moving around more students.
But can you speak up so that they can all hear you? All of any high school students.
I'd rather have an American than a Dutch, frankly. You have to pick, yes.
Here you go to your physician and you have a splinter in your finger, in your spleen,
your ankle, and you have a sinus that hurts.
Do you expect him to give you an electrocardiogram?
Mind you, I have no sense to do it, but that's very clearly to pass a bill.
Do you expect him to take the splinter out without sending you to a major surgeon
to tell you to put an ACE bandage on that ankle
and put some heating pad on that sinus and maybe take some antibiotic.
That won't do you much good.
And that's what you're expecting, don't you?
You're not expecting to pop you into hospital bed and give you a total physical.
At what point do symptoms become chewed in around the symptoms?
You're really reaching the same systemic.
All right, we get one very important.
when you get that kind of feeling and listen to the words because that is precise as you can be
when you and the reason let me say when it begins to suspect that things are systemic when by
clearing up one symptom you're covering out the next that springtime my finger when you take it
out it isn't going to come back you know sprinters do not form spontaneously uh and that's but uh if
by removing one what looks like a symptom something popped immediately pops up and you get a
kind of a picture of and you say these things symptoms of an underlying disturbance and you
don't say this is just individual but there is no clear quantitative or logical way for this path
that's a prominent pattern recognition and one of the most interesting one uh if you're if you're
interested in it the great authority and it is that one is that most interesting of the early
gestalt man kofka about 1906 tackled from a gestalt the configuration point the old greek
riddles of how many grains of sand make a sand pile you know a sand pile behaves totally differently
of grains of sand. The physics of sandpile are the physics. At what point do piling up grains of sand
give you a sandpile? At what point does quantity change into quality? And he worked on these,
and a lot of these things you're all familiar with, such as the Rorschach test or such as
the all the apperception tests are based on that kind of work. These are all the Rorschach
tested to the test the way you see you a pattern where they are home non there's no quantity and
that's a wide bandwidth of judgment but all you can say is that when it looks as if what all
isolated symptoms are really and the test is always that by getting rid of the system you
don't get you don't create health you're just the next symptom now mind you see maybe the only
disease you then have is hypochondria but that is a syndrome maybe you just there's nothing wrong
with the organism but there's hypochondria which we do not know how to treat either in the physical
body or in the corporate body they are corporate therefore but still so this is what is the first
moment it's the most difficult because uh one can when does one ask that when does one say let's
read a business you met the original object you see even before that one always does it in case
of the first rule is always quarrel with say the great danger is not if failure well you know you
You have to go badly, things don't turn out as expected, or you have to, even the laziest
and the stupidest eventually reaches a conclusion, well, there's something wrong here.
Mind you, it's, you know, you come out on a main road and you should have turned left
and you turn right, and now you're traveling north instead of south.
Ah, about 30 miles you begin to ask questions.
And after another 10 miles, you look at the map, then you see that we shouldn't really
have passed Sand Hill, that's in the wrong direction.
One does eventually discover it if one travels in the wrong direction.
But so if you're in case of failure, one begins to reassess.
In case of success, one does not.
That's why success is so dangerous.
one then takes it for granted. And usually either you have, as Lou pointed out, you have attained your objectives.
And what you've been trying to do, you have finished doing. It's done.
Some of you know that I am not a great admirer of sales training. I don't believe one can train a salesman.
But one can teach a salesman a few things.
The most important thing to teach the salesman is to stop selling when the customer has bought.
And that's a terribly difficult thing for salesmen to do.
Particularly here, they're all primed with the big sales field.
The boss has told them it's going to be terribly difficult.
And the customer says, where do I sign?
And then the young salesman is likely to say, as one of them once said to me,
let me finish my sales talk.
To learn, to stop when one has attained the objective, and to reassess.
And success, particularly success of this magnitude, is always a compelling reason for doing something.
And maybe you come up with a conclusion,
what we are doing is exactly what we should be doing,
we need to do more of it, and now let's raise our sights a good bit higher.
clientele but maybe you don't and then any other reason this was a one-man show 25 years ago
now how many people have we got here 400 what 800 140 yeah uh paid professionals paid people
professionals and it's more of a large organization voluntary organization
The chapters in the U.S. and representatives abroad, whenever you have a quantum change in size, one has to think through both what is our business and also how do we organize.
A quantum change in size is always a good reason for saying how should it be organized. It changes the structure. But it's also a good reason for saying what is our business of life. Why do I say that? What happens if you go from one half-time, part-time executives in New York to 140 spread all over the globe other than that your payroll goes?
now that's the least important what's much more important how does it manifest
uh the gentleman here said you lose control that's the reason why you have to look at your
organization but why do you have to look at your purpose at your objective because here you have
grown and now if you really want to make this organization effective you have to make sure
that everybody understands at least what not maybe totally what the objective is but
that he has some way of relating himself to it and if you do not recreate vision you can be
sure you don't have the idea that you can grow from one professional 240 of whom 60 are outside
of the central office and maintains a common vision without reaffirming it without thinking
through what is the objective is a little silly. In fact, everybody in this organization knows
what he thinks the organization is trying to do, but I can be, you can be reasonably sure that these
different, are very different and objective, and that unless you force yourself what the objectives
are, you won't even find out what you're in terms of, I wouldn't say disagreements, disagreements
are harmed but clashes of vision are another reason to say oh let's go back to what the lady
in back there said about the symptoms you know she talked about uh that the american and other
high school kids may not be quite as welcome and to be by the way let me say last june i spoke to
americans i've never in my life seen there was not one mustache in the crowd that the long hair
and when i said to them kids you're a lot of the kind of answers in unison
that's not what we are going to study and i was squelched properly see and depressingly so
so that fear of that hedonistic high school generation one look at that could have cured you
And they were not selected that way, they were not accepted, so that may be something not to worry about too much.
All you would have to do is, in your next brochure, twelve photographs of twelve kids at random, and you would have dispelled that fear.
In fact, you might have treated the opposite one, my God, can I live up to that young man or woman.
yes sir it's very hard to prove one way or another but you know what we were
told a few minutes ago is that you have at least a strong indication that the
market is the environment and one always asks what is our business and what
should it be if one has reason to suspect that the market is changing
Whether you define market in terms of demographics or whether you define it, and this is now coming back to you, that the product or service serves a very different purpose for the customer from what you originally intended it to serve or what it was originally for.
That's a very radical market change. And in other words, let me see, there is a methodology which says if your market changes or you have reason to suspect it may change, if your technology, if your size changes significantly and if you have been successful,
Then you ask the question, what is our business and what should it be for our customers? Then you do not. And finally, if the kind of problems you have seem to become patterns around something, you don't know what it is.
But if you have a kind of suspicion that they're really symptoms of the same underlying phenomenon,
rather than isolated, self-contained, individual, discrete events.
But be careful.
This is the latter one.
The latter one is the quickest road to hypochondria.
This is exactly how hypochondria becomes a hypochondria.
hypochondriac has the same ailments of the flesh that afflict all of us but while the
normal person so to speak looks upon that prick in the neck as a rheumatism and that sprained ankle
well i should have looked before i stepped off the ladder and said so a throat so on hypochondriac
over relates all them to systemic complaints and mind you yes it might be it might well be
uh but uh but it is uh uh the complaints of the hypochondriac are usually not imaginary
he has a quick internet he has the source book he has stepped his toe and loses the nail on it
But most of us simply, all right, so you lose a nail, so you put the band-aid on.
So you have sprained your ankle, so you put the nail spandex on.
So you have a sore throat, so you gargle with salt water until it goes away.
The complaints are exactly the same.
Only the hypochondriac sees a pattern of deep underlying disease.
And so be careful with the going from the fact that there are symptoms
to the tentative diagnosis of an underlying basic cause because why did
this by no means impossible it is also the road trip upon there but there is
that and unless you reach the point where you can see that we have in
doctoring symptoms doctoring events and no sooner get me rid of one then a
A similar one appears elsewhere, but then one has to look for other than that to what one can handle
with a band-aid, one handles with a band-aid and not with radical surgery. They'll be a little
careful of suspicion that because there are problems, something fundamentally must be,
maybe, maybe not. But one always says if the size of an institution has changed very greatly.
That also means that the number of people you tell change greatly and that lets you rethink your objectives and reaffirm them. What changes? You don't have common vision.
But if the market has changed, that forces you to say, well, are we still serving the same function or what function should we serve? And if technology and product, but above all technology, has changed greatly, which is not here, then one has the same problem.
and so one has there is a methodology for asking when one should ask what is our business what it
should be and you might add in addition that if you haven't done it for 10 years it's a good
idea to do it anyhow because the lifetime of any definition of what is our business
10 years is fairly long we see there are some definitions around that have proven
have been valid for a long time. And in one way they are very great achievements and in
other ways they are very dangerous. I think, where in American business would you look
for the best answer to the question, what is our business and what should it be? Coca-Cola
is an old one, but they radically changed it, they re-spawned it. Anybody else? Where
got leading examples, quoted in the literature. You come out of your respective right and left ears.
It's Theodore Vail and the telephone company, and Alfred Sloan and GM, and these were very bold
things. Vail in particular, to say our business is service in 1908, was absolutely heretical. You know,
when he first proposed it ten years earlier, his board of directors fired him out of hand. Vail was
He was general manager and president of the telephone company in 1897, and came to his board and said,
we want to think through what our business is.
They said, well, that's obviously the telephone system.
No, no, no, it's still the Gideon-Shriman severance plate.
On the spot, and ten years later, the telephone system was so close to being national.
In 1908, the telephone system, within two votes, in both, say, Illinois and, say, Virginia,
in the chambers of the National. Because of lack of civs, the board called back
Bale's meetings for Boston Banquets, that they could be wrong. The only example of
ever having done it. And so they must have been in very real
progress with it. And then Bale did it, but even then his book. And Sloan had very similar
from essentially a very radical, and Wales worked, Wales died in the last financial to be able to,
in a new capital, worked, you know, very well till the 60s, a hell of a long time. But now,
do we have any telephone people here? Can we speak freely? And, well, don't listen. And now,
let me say, the fact that Wales concepts, definitions, proved valid for long is the
greatest single danger to the telephone because it makes it terribly difficult. Everybody has come up
in a tradition where the basic varieties were known. They have done better with the thinking,
challenging, and challenging. After the first challenge, the financial concept, Bale's concept of
the all-purpose common share, and did very well. And without that, they would not have survived
to that but you have to challenge a few other things and it's terribly hard if grandpa has
been so wise and you have been living off his intellectual capital so long nobody has ever had
a chance a reason to see that very clearly in gm where the fact that sloan was so powerful
that i don't mean tyrannically but she was not powerful as a thinker with intellectual honesty
intellectual rigor, is paralyzed because it is terribly difficult to think.
You grow up in a system in which things were completely clear and obvious and logical and
made sense and you are very good at manipulating, but you have never had to think and it's terribly
difficult to do it. So, but on the other hand, if you have a sloan or a veil, be grateful because
50 years for anything man designed is a very long time but most of these decisions are good for 10
years maximum you might say c is in also as an hour the end of a 50-year definition general words
