We need new thinking, and it's very doubtful whether any of these very brilliant people can think.
Not because they don't have the intellectual capacity, but because they have never used that particular muscle.
They never have been. So that's a danger. But also, well, there is no achievement without the price.
But most others, let me see, five to ten years, about all the life expectancy they have,
partly because they are very rarely as fundamental, as clear as those telephone, those GM, those
Sears objectives were. Partly because the environment really stands still that long,
and power of technology, and partly because it takes a very powerful person, as a person,
to make a whole organization really accept the objective, the way these three men did,
and really live up to it, so that in most organizations you get a drift, a dilution,
weakening very fast. The most powerful of the five or six who built the American
University in the last 19, was Rainy Hopper who built the University of Chicago, and also
the clearest in what they tried to do, was the fact that they had more
money, because the habit of throwing money at people is not the recent
Rockefeller habit, it's an old one, and it's a better habit than the Fourth Foundation
habit of throwing money at problems, and much better. And, and Winnie Harper had
practically a blank check on the old man. He was once asked how long he thought
his clear theoretical objective of university cargo would govern that institution, and he
said, if I die five years, and if I live three, and that's a very profound statement. If you die,
You become enshrined. And that maintains a certain inflexibility.
I feel that you begin to make compromises yourself.
So it's very rarely that you have such power for the figure.
It becomes fuzzier. Here is this compromise.
Here is that thing you pick up that doesn't fit your concept,
but it seems to be a good idea.
And so in no time at all it's that you pick up.
So you have to, the good idea to raise that question anyhow. And finally, let me say it's always a good idea to, when a new time comes, one of the things you expect of a new time, because he now has, the new management has to call the signals and at least got to know what game are we playing.
So, it is a good idea to ask, and it's not, on general principles, which are not theoretical, which are our experience.
You can explain each theoretically, but basically they are the result of experience.
If you don't do it in these times, you are likely to be in trouble fairly soon.
How does one do it? In this case, it's a very simple case, kind of question. So what?
You know, I heard somebody, and I don't know who it was, imply, and I very deliberately
didn't listen, imply that maybe one asks first, does the organization still make any sense
form who was that who said here is that mission of creating international understanding by exchanging
young and i'm by now making sure that this makes any sense that's what you implied you know that
it works uh first ask what were the original assumptions until they still go there is no law
of god or nature that says that organizations have to be perpetually organizations are means to an
end nothing so one first says here is the original assumption a does it did it make sense in the first
place b does it still make sense c are the means appropriate to it uh certainly reason for our
existence. The very fact that there are 30,000 kids who are willing to take a hand out, which
you think is a good reason for anything, is no reason at all. Never be surprised that it's easy
to give away money. It's very difficult to give it away intelligently. That's terrible. But just to
stand on the street corner and hand it out is very easy. And then affect this organization's
subsidized affluent kids you're really surprised that they have 30 000 applicants the only reason
why they don't have 300 000 is that somehow word just hasn't spread fast enough that's absolutely
mean it proves nothing except that it's easy to give away money which is one theorem that
does not require proof no strings attached no obligation all you have to be willing to do is
to accept the check that's not that doesn't need proof nor is it nor does it accomplish anything
you know yes sir the very point that i guess might go to where somebody might be willing to
pay for it is this a reasonable area but you're too soon you're jumping to number three before
you've asked one or two. So then they started exchanging people with Europeans. Well, it
looks like it's in Europe, so we're not going to go to Europe. I have no idea. Asia and
America. Well, they have been going to South America and Asia increasingly. Let me say
that you're all kind of saying the mission must have sounded wonderful in 1945, and now
almost 30 years later, we have become a little disenchanted.
But you know, this is a, one could easily see what
would the world look like if we hadn't done these things. It's not a
particularly pleasant world, but what would it look like if one
hadn't done these things? Maybe one should have done more of them, I don't know.
This argument you're trying to make,
may I say, on very strict, necessarily logical grounds,
is not tenable the way you try to mount it. You would have to adduce at least some evidence,
some near-quality evidence. Why is this activity potentially harmful? Because otherwise you
have the argument that it doesn't do any harm where it might do some good and it may not
It doesn't have as much impact as we hoped it does, but what would the world look like if we hadn't done it? And it has byproducts or a main product benefits, which are not to be sneezed at.
You would say, all right, fine, you're a cynic, but name, tell me what else we could do. And you can't answer that. So don't, if you have something that is essentially, I don't think anybody here feels strongly that this is potentially harmful.
Maybe, I don't know, unlikely. There's always a remote danger that young people might learn something, but, you know, it's a remote danger, and it's a one-risk-one-takes, I've learned.
And you might then say, well, all right, but if that's all you are after, a year of fun for the kids, learning something,
then the way you do it and the way you finance it you can kind of justify levying to public for this
at a time when there are so many other needs and where perhaps the available
public charity money might be spent to better purposes elsewhere but then you're asking about
ways and arguing about ways and means and other what you're saying might be so you can you nobody
pretended in 1960s i would say that this was the one activity that would guarantee the question
was what can we as individuals do germany to help a little bit i don't think any of these gis
was stupid enough to believe that this one activity is the answer he said here is at least
at least one little thing and that we can do we can tell the kremlin to dissolve we can tell him
that that's not getting done very far we can't make national policy at least within our own
small communities we can generate the head create the generation that's a little more knowledgeable
than we were and has a little more relationships to the world than we had and a little more
concerned about the world than we were in most of you are too young to know what the world looked
like 40 50 years ago in that respect and who therefore are less susceptible to demagogic
demagoguery and to an appeal to hate people because they know that uh these i know half a dozen people
in that country who are my friend and therefore i'm not going to fall for a hate campaign uh
and who are less susceptible to propaganda because they have seen a few things and you may say that's
a very modest goal. There is no law in the world that says goals have to be modest. That applies
only to IT&T. Everybody else has the right to be modest, and incidentally it makes sense in this
giggle. So Harvard University and IT&T at the end of the standard of special dispensation,
they say they have to be modest goals. The rest of us can be fully modest and therefore
occasionally achieve. And you may say this isn't good enough for me. Well, then I'll
give them a penny. I've never felt terribly excited by these things and I've never given
them a penny. I'll put my money elsewhere. But then they have no tax power either, except
insofar as they're being tax exempt, it's considered a loophole. And so what's wrong?
The fact that you feel that the world isn't quite as nice a place as you would like it to, more of us do.
But what would it be like if efforts like these hadn't been made?
The fact that this is very modest and reaches a few individuals, hopefully opinion makers,
and reaches them at a formative age, maybe that's a little slow, but you know a better process.
So, maybe what you are saying is, I think this is a fairly minor affair.
What's true are most of the companies in this room.
That is to say, most of the companies disappeared, very few of us were.
And the same is true of most of us personally.
But there is no argument.
The question is, is the basic, but it's not a question, are the basic assumptions still valid?
For instance, if somebody like we needed to do the job, if we disappeared, would the job be done just as necessary?
More than a few, they have done something. You may say it's very little and very modest and isn't going to get us very far, but it is something.
You know, a kid on an airplane to Europe isn't just a teen.
And I'm not arguing that this is a world-shaking enterprise, and I don't think anybody ever did.
Thank God the world consists of enterprises that are not world-shaking.
Beware of world-shaking ones. They usually do damage.
You see, beware of the charismatic leaders.
Almost no exception is left behind the legacy of suffering, blood, and horror.
Charisma is usually used for wholesale.
It's about the only use we have.
Beware of the great man. Christ is being great for the small and unassuming things that we know.
You know the old Jewish legend of the ten just men, for the sake of whom the good Lord maintains this world?
At any one time, there have to be ten just men, which are ever fewer than that.
The good Lord will draw his hand away from under the world, and it will appear to nothing.
nothing. Ah, unknown
because their life does not
shine in democracy. They are just
in their very small personal
life and they maintain.
So don't, don't
criticize things because they do
not revolutionize.
All they do is set an example
for anybody can do. Yes sir?
My point was not that it's too...
So let me say one
question one asks and you have
not. There's a
Are the basic assumptions still valid for which we did it?
Has it proven doable?
The answer in this case is yes.
Yes, it has proven eminently doable.
Is the need still there?
I think the need is definitely still there.
Are the means appropriate to the end?
This might be the only question here where you might say,
maybe those people should fold up their tents and should do something else.
Because whether the means are more appropriate to the end, that is probably the one thing.
That's the way you have purely an assertion of faith, incapable of being proven,
incapable of being disproved.
But not looking nearly as plausible as if they said, you know, perhaps you don't think...
What normally starts out is that question, is there any reason why we should stay?
There is no law that says you can't leave, and there is every reason to liquidate when
to quit when you're ahead.
And one always asks the question, does it still make sense or should we abandon it?
That's the first question.
And let me say, one always, this is the first question because the probability that an activity
doesn't make sense is always greater than that it makes sense.
The probability that something that was begun 20 years ago still makes sense is considerably less than 50%.
Activities, in the first place, a hell of a lot of activities make no sense when you start them.
Never did. And a lot of them attain their objectives and no longer any point doing it.
I'll give you a very simple example of an activity that's no point doing it for the next 10 years.
That's college recruiting. Unless you consider it an attempt to get across some
realities to the kids, but then you'd better not do it the way we are doing.
It makes no sense. College recruiting is based on the assumption that it is
necessary for a company or for an employer to attract good educated people
because they are in very scarce supply. The second assumption was that it is
possible for an employer to attract this way a better quote selection and back
to pure random and finally to rest it on the assumption that you have to
convince young people that they need a job what for the next 10 years in case
you haven't did you aren't going to have a surplus of college education not as
an assorted going to be no such problem I'm not going to say that there's going
to be a fantastic circle in some areas, each of the risks. But by and large, there's going
to be no shoot, none whatever. Secondly, the idea that by sending a recruiter on campus
you get a better selection has been proven. There'll be none. You see, anybody could have
proven to you by means of the stability theory that it must be none, that all you can hope
to get something a little less good than random if you do not know the criteria of selection
if there is no way in which you there is communication possible there is no communication
possible between the youngster who has never worked with only an organization and the organization
which has no other information about the youngster but his school grades which god tells you
have nothing to do with any of you now rolling dice is probably just as good and the proof of it
is that four out of five don't stay the proof is that it is not the selection and if you hire
random you do better if you hire purely at random what comes in through the door all right you insist
on a college degree not because it makes any difference but because it enables you to have
an objective criteria and a cut-off criteria you don't manipulate that's the only thing it does so
saying no is not personal and unarbitrary but you have anybody with a college and incidentally
the college major has no relationship with anything either and the turnover rate is about
half that of the people in the college recruiter select for one simple reason that you don't create
those expectations, they call it, which then are simply disappointed because no, there's no
organization in the world that could possibly live up to these promises. Not explicit promises,
the very presence of them. And so if you find it out, then you know that the assumptions that you
can get better selection doesn't work. Even if ordinary probability mathematics wouldn't tell you
that once you are above two or three or four people,
you have no choice but to hire the probability district of humanity.
The law of great numbers starts very, very early.
And finally, the last assumption that kids don't want jobs,
maybe as long as there were 11 jobs available for each,
kids could afford to say, I don't want one.
It was never true.
I don't know whether you realize that a larger number of college youngsters, college graduates,
go into jobs today than at any time in our history.
That they feel it necessary to proclaim that they are opting out,
well, that is their personal need for rhetoric, but that one doesn't pay much attention to.
Just as the idea that young women don't marry doesn't jive with the fact that
that there never before in our history was at large a proportion of young women over 23 married
as now always much larger proportion unmarried so that one is not terribly concerned about rhetoric
in the sense of being operational then the rhetoric serves a need but whatever it may be
but one is not saying that if the rhetoric serves the need which is ostensibly aggressive
serve some other need. A real need, but I don't have to be concerned.
College recruiter makes no sense. An activity which made a lot of sense 20
years ago, when there was genuine scarcity, though
we very soon learned that the price was probably a very high
one, because we ended up with the worst selection,
and we created expectations. So, but now there's no need at all. Don't tell
the dean that will you uh now it it helps the placement of if you want to make a contribution
to pomona college bluntly send them the salary of the college because rather than the college
because but that's all it is and for sure one doesn't assume that this because an activity
has been there and everybody does that it makes sense one says are the assumptions still valid
now if you but one might then say all right but there is a need for intelligent advice to young
but the college what is the need how can we fulfill it maybe here in the service
maybe we have an obligation to higher education and also public relations functions then how do
we discharge we have a lot more experience than the kids and a hell of a lot more experience
the kids know a great deal more than the faculty but neither of them knows very much
so and we know a fair amount we can answer questions including the stupid questions that
are always being asked uh we can relieve anxiety the most important thing one would have to tell a
youngster is look you are not going to make the final career this coming june you are not even
going steady. All this is, is a weekend. Catalina Island. And that's all it is. Has about that
much commitment to it. That is the most important thing you can say. The other thing one can
say to them, it looks as a very elementary rule in decision making. Is there a risk postponing
it or not? If there's no risk postponing it, there's no risk postponing graduates. Five
your sense predictably it's going to, and willing to take your money. So find out who you are first,
jump in, go to work. You can get a job at GE, go to work at GE. If you don't like it,
three months later, go elsewhere. What's your risk? Not the thing. That's the kind of thing
one needs, and maybe that function needs to be fulfilled, and could be fulfilled,
but it's not the recruiters. So don't assume that activities are forever. They are very short-lived
because assumptions, environments change, or because, as in the recruiter, it turns out that
while there was a need, the way we tackled it did not satisfy, and we don't know how to satisfy.
And the means were totally inappropriate to the goal, as witnessed the turnover rate of the
kids recruited this way.
Nothing that has that turnover rate can be defended, let me say.
It's an unnecessarily bloody and expensive way
not to have results. And
then one says, but all right, maybe I now understand the real need.
So one does ask,
Well, first question, what were the assumptions? Are the means appropriate? Has it worked in any way, experienced, shown that the means may be counterproductive? College recruiting is counterproductive.
because only there's damage for the boat, not just expensive.
But maybe we now understand the real need.
That's the first question. And it's the most searching one.
And that's why one asks, what's the next one? We better go.
