The only thing I learned in eight years was the Jesuits, and it's more than most people learned.
We said two things today so far. First, we talked about the reasons to examine what your business is and what it should be,
and decided that in this particular case, that lawyer friend of our friend Williamson certainly has a point.
that even if it turns out that they know what their business is that there's no reason that
there are good reasons for not just for our standing back and asking and secondly we looked
at one way to raise that question about fundamentals and it is their most searching which
is what are the tasks is there still a need and now let's move to the next way of looking at this
which may not be but perhaps not also not quite so difficult because i think we all sense that
that first approach while we decide one is also very difficult very easy to come to grips with
very much the same kind of but a little more easily and without quite so much agony you know
in this particular case uh the gentleman over there and i'm afraid i don't know you mean he
He knew who our customer is, and I tell you that he was wrong.
Williamson knows who our customer is, and he is wrong.
And 240 professionals we employ know who our customer is, and they are wrong.
One asks, who is our customer?
And how, what defines it?
How do you determine who our customer is?
I'm a pharmaceutical company.
Who is my customer?
Making, I make prescription drugs.
Who is my customer?
What? The patient only pays the bill.
The doctor. Why is the doctor my customer?
He tells you what to do.
He makes the buying...
You didn't say it was...
Yes, I said I make prescription drugs.
If I make over-the-counter drugs, who's my customer?
Drugists.
But not my only one.
The ultimate consumer is part of it.
But the pharmacist first has to put it on the shelf.
If it ain't on the shelf, but in a prescription drug,
the physician is my customer so far.
Tomorrow it may be Uncle Sam.
But today it's because he makes the buying.
Anybody, any one of you ever looked at a prescription and said,
why don't you prescribe the other brand of the same medicine?
You couldn't read it?
No, I can't.
Some of you might.
But even if you could read it, would it help you very much?
You don't have that much information.
Even if you had the information, to be honest,
you have an ultimate, not take it, you may throw it away.
When it happens, you think, but essentially,
that's a decision not to buy authority,
not the decision to replace one person.
The effective bank is most suppliers,
because you have both the middleman and the consumer.
retailer who has to put it on the shelves and the housewife who buys it.
And if the retailer doesn't put it on the shelves, let me see, the housewife is
not going to go back and make her own. She's going to buy another brand. But on the
other hand, if the housewife repudiates a brand, it doesn't do the retailer any
good to give it a lot of shelf space. It isn't going to sell the private brands
the best thing which housewives don't buy and which retailers the large chain
retailers give an inordinate amount of shelter and they don't sell but on the
other hand you have a product which a housewife which a retailer either
doesn't sell and it doesn't sell either there you need it's very different
expect very different concepts of value very different decision and you have to
satisfy them both. Let's look at our friend here, the Worldwide Youth Exchange. I didn't know what
camouflage name I'd give. Who controls old man and dad? The boy, the child? Society. You see,
one asks a question looking at a specific situation. Where's the bottleneck? Where is the
short supply. If you are a manufacturer of sofle or canned tuna fish, whom are you going
to put more attention to today, the retailer or the housewife? What's a short supply? Wives
and their shelf space. Hell of a lot more shelf space. My main concern is to get it
on the shelf. And today, far more concerned than with consumers. One of the problems,
Let me say, the consumerist movement doesn't understand that this is one of the reasons for that contrary behavior of flyers, but it is.
From the point of view of stockage tuner or pear blossom soap,
dinky dinky witsy crackers, the fundamental, their restraint,
their bottom is a shelf space, and therefore sat this case.
If I have one square foot of shelf space is not as good as another,
location is very important.
So it isn't just getting onto a shelf, it's getting onto the right shelf.
anybody here in the nationally branded consumer goods business or the rest kind of have said
sugar daddy that's the department of defense which is very easy to compare to a decent
chain store store chain and how do i get if i don't get on that good shelf space where i get
decent exposure it doesn't help me any that the house the number of house
wax but when they do not find their favorite brand of bleach on the shelves
do without bleach is thank god very small
most of them say what will do rather than go wait for the center
without smart put the laundry on the non-existing
spaces to let me by that time you can wash again
So, the housewife may want the brand, but not that badly, thank God.
Very rational, even to very, very few flights of her.
And she knows perfect.
She needs a bleach, and she wants a brand she is good at.
And she doesn't like the big holes in her laundry.
But short of that, bleaches are not that important.
uh and so the crucial customer in a period when shelf space is scale is the retailer
and one of the things the consumerists do not understand and shouldn't understand not their
business is that the manufacturer does not look upon the house by the consumer service but upon
the retailer is perfectly attuned only it's a different consumer and housewives there are a
hell of a lot of and retailers are quite uh and so he quite understandably says what do i do
to satisfy alphabets area or see if we and not claire smith declare smith but if i don't get
a never get so one always looks and that is it that was the danger of neglecting but it is
typical for almost everybody that he has at least two if you sell first if you sell nasa you might
say you're the technical sale but it doesn't you have at least phil westfield how many customers
do you have who can say no can each of them can be to you within the same organization
no no just one i don't know but it's more than one and so one says who is the customer first
who has to say yes before i get the chance who controls the toll gate controls the american the
host family we're paying the whole bills the host family shelf space but that's the shelf space yes
kids have a plenty you're told you've got ten times as many as you can place ten times as many
qualified ones as you can place no shortage no that's not there's no reciprocity oh i think no
No, no, no. Anybody ever been on any one of those programs here?
No, but three or four organizations. No, you send an American child to France and another family,
not even necessarily the same community, takes a French child. Yes, sir. That's not your bottom.
That's not your restraint. Yeah, but it isn't your restraint. Your restraint is the number of
families willing to accept a youngster. That is the customer who makes the ultimate buying.
You know that's very upsetting. This whole program as you are being told and as our friend over there
told us is being run as a program to place youngsters with the assumption underlying it
that the youngster is a customer or his family and when you look at it, it isn't true. Your customer
is the host uh and nobody has asked the question what do they buy what do they consider value
you're being told that that's where your program is their restraint is that they are concerned
about taking high school kids into their home and incidentally the american one just is concerned
about taking the dutch or the german child in as the dutch or the german families concerned about
taking said American boys, teenagers are teenagers all the world over. But also that also financial
your mainstay. It's that family that makes the child cost you. It's more than that all right
men are all grown up thank goodness and all are concerned about their weight. And so if you ask
the question that's let me say quite intentionally gave you that this case on because it's a case
that demonstrate the tremendous penetrating power of that elementary question, who is our country?
All of you, I would say, then, what's the good people in that agency? We look upon the youth,
the young, from the child, but when you ask the question, it becomes the immediate thing,
that the first answer, not the first, is, oh no, the most important, are the hosts,
to whom nobody pays any attention, nobody asks what do they want, what do they need,
nobody's bringing them into the read about how do we get the young people back in program word
about how do we get the host families in nobody's thinking uh they are being looked at the way mr
nader looks at the retailer which is one of the strengths of mr nader that he sees a direct line
from the housewife to the manufacturer but also one of his weaknesses it is there is not the
The manufacturer, if he knows his business, sees the retailer very large and the housewife quite small.
He first has to satisfy the retailer, also a customer.
And if he can't satisfy the retailer, the housewife will never get a chance to buy the product,
no matter how much he loves it and how much it satisfies him.
I've said Mr. Nader doesn't see and shouldn't sit down, but it's still a fact.
And nobody has asked him.
anybody know a major social service institution that about 25 years ago and as a result from being
moribund club problem really totally until it became only two they are dying the adoption
who said that who said who said adoption the adoption 40 years ago 30 years ago or the adoption
agency was that they placed one was tremendous and then somebody said who are the customers i don't
They aren't the children at all, they're families with them.
The adoption agencies began very reluctantly to say,
who are the potential, what are they looking for?
And then, lo and behold, they cannot possibly satisfy
their demand for children to be adopted,
even though their number of children to be adopted has increased quite fast.
But they saw themselves in the tradition of the old orphans
as a place to dispose of unwanted children.
And that's not easy to do.
When they began to realize that their job is to find
children that fit potential adoptive parents,
they suddenly couldn't satisfy the demand.
They still have children that are hard to place,
people with spastic children, what have you.
But basically their problem now is that
that there are not nearly enough children available for adoption to satisfy the needs and demands of parents who would like to adopt a child.
And this is not because there has been the slightest change in the demands of places. There hasn't been any.
But because they've been looking at the situation all along through the wrong end of the telescope.
They did not ask who are the customers.
And if you look, I feel in which I have a long and distinguished record of total failure,
that of the handicapped, the handicapped in general, a great hero.
We see the few agencies that have done well with the handicapped.
Our own agencies that do not tell anybody,
you should employ the handicapped despite the handicapped.
That's what the agencies that say, these aren't handicapped,
These are people. The blind can do a lot of things. Seeing people cannot. They have also, there are certainly a great many things the blind can do a hell of a lot. A lot of places where the deaf cannot.
Under the best record, it is an ungodly alliance between the archbishop and rabbi there.
And they are running the handicap in Jacobs.
I looked upon the problem as finding where I'm from.
Then you find state law against safety.
And we know how to find peace, satisfy those needs for great thing at you.
When I can look at it that way, find who you certainly cause, it is very easy.
The greatest, the typical development is that while you're, and if you then continue to run it the same old way, you're running wrong. In this situation, maybe 30 years ago, your customers were the young people, but they are today second.
you have got 10 times as many as you can place so even if you lost 80 percent of them you know
you'll still be all right if you lose 90 percent it begins to be a little but 85 percent you can
lose and still be able to fill any place you can fill well there are very few businesses where one
can lose 85 customers and not know if you can do that and your own customers and their suppliers
On the other hand, they could not lose many host families without feeling it very strongly.
The host families that make the buying list, what do they want and need and expect?
What is value to the relationship?
What do they need to all questions?
There are no absolute answers.
All the 140 professionals work on the young and not one, except once in a while, works on the host family.
Will you please tomorrow look at your business with the hypothesis, no more than that, that that's what we call the most common thing. The state colleges in the state of California have never, and yet when you look what is essentially the controlling customer for the state colleges.
I'm not talking of those august institutions, the state university, and I'm not talking of the,
but take the 19th state college. Together have what, 400,000 young cultures in them. The parents
are nervous, and they say, okay, just like that. And yet they make the buying decision,
and they make the budget decision. If the parents believe that the state colleges should have more
money do you really think to be any problem one looks and says who has the
controlling decision where is there with free silly limit that has who can say
yes and who can say no who before it who has to say yes before anybody else can
say yes the retailer has to say yes before your life can choose between if
he says no and puts only three brands up, he chooses between three brands. He isn't going
home and tell you sorry this week we ain't going to have coffee. He's going to say I couldn't get
whatever it is, it was in the supermarket, you'll drink this. In fact he isn't even going to tell
you that because you don't know. So we know how they buy, why they buy, what they buy,
relations. They need, though that's all. And our business, in other words, is not to satisfy
young people. Ten times as many as we can place. Our business is first to satisfy hosts.
The expansion and growth of our business depends on our getting more host families. Young people,
we have more than enough. And so maybe we need to redefine our business in the sense
of our business is to motivate encourage inspire families to want foreign youngster to find young
to subsidize that may have been the right definition of the business in 1950 but it no
longer is and what this means operationally you and i don't run this agency and you know my basic
principle that i don't do any managing the pay uh it's a very sound uh nobody so or i have my
charity patients and then i do management where i get paid in some other coin but we don't know
enough to know what needs to be done in fact but no obviously do these people they have never looked
at it and yet when you look at the actual situation it is quite the bottom stream the
custom true decision is the host ah what does this by the way imply for the way the program is
financed what these financial means will come they look at it as a draw because i couldn't hear you
and nobody else could i was saying as mark being approached by this disorganization how is the
program financed today yes sir how is it financed today thanks how is it financed today it's like
donations through the chapel. But who is being financed? No, not in the league. Well, you mean
the student's family is financed? Yeah. The kids are being financed. Those kids likely to come from
poor families or not, what do you think? Why not? Oh, no, that is not the matter. Look, here you
have this idea of beyond his quality. These people, for instance, they have to make the effort, but
one could have told them that it isn't going to get them anything because here is that black family
and it is it doesn't have that much consent that 15 year old into a foreign country of which he
knows absolutely nothing where they speak god knows what language in fact that is a middle
class this feeling that this the way they live in france and i trust that youngster the youngster
has enough to take care of him you really think they're very exceptional now you're talking of
clearly something as a culture plus that idea that by exposure to a foreign culture you learn
something that's very much enough you really think that makes a great deal of sense to the
true worker in it or to that black family in the ghetto do you think it makes a hell of a lot of
sense i'm not saying that it makes sense or that it does but it sure doesn't make sense to
working class, let alone to poor blacks or poor Chicanos. Very little things. They are afraid, they are frightened.
And let me say the basic sociological law is that the poor cannot afford to take because they don't have
at the fundamental sociological law, which unfortunately Washington...
