Experiment with new crops, new seeds, is asinine.
No matter how superior the seed is, there are 4,000 years of experience
that when you have a crop failure, you starve, have to sell your daughter into prostitution,
and you can't afford to take a risk.
You know the seed you have is not very good, but you know what yield to expect.
And so you want experiment.
Experimentation is for people who can afford it. The poor don't have that margin of error.
And sending a child abroad for a year is experimentation.
All right for the middle class which has been to Europe, which knows what Nancy looks like.
The experiment is a mile long.
For the toolmaker in Detroit, it is a risky experiment.
It's enough for that junior high school, junior class in high school to make an annual trip to Washington.
Enough mischief goes on on that trip.
And you don't want to go into the crater.
Experimentation is not for people who cannot afford their loss.
The old rules that the widows and orphans better not buy a growth stock.
not because the opportunities aren't greater than in treasury bills,
but because they don't have MR.
And?
So, this is an upper...
Now, you may have upper middle class that cannot afford this program.
Let's say if you want people, the costs, no matter how economically you run the program,
and the way this is a fairly lush program,
Uh, still. But you're still essentially
exceded. There's no exce-
depending on charity or on
foundation for subsidizing
wealth to get an enjoyable
edu- Now, how you
organize getting to be paid
from- Anybody got any ideas?
If you're charged and what it costs,
what would happen? I can't- You're making
faces there, but I'm
not that good at telepathy, why don't you
speak up? Well, no, that isn't true.
Nobody would be willing to pay. Incidentally, will you please never say nobody can afford it? It happens to be an irrelevant and meaningless comment. It has nothing to do with what people pay.
Let me say that in a minute, as long as there have been economists, a very long time, they have always known that the middle class cannot afford one-third of what they spend. That is the definition of the middle class.
It's irrelevant. The fact is not what people can afford, but either what they can borrow
or what they are willing to spend. What matters is not means or a parameter restraint and
not a move to an economy. To an economist, what matters is the position and the value
and limited them by available gift schedule, but they don't shell out the money and how
high it ranks in the demand schedule of their parents and it is unlikely that if you assess
the full cost from against the benefit.
I don't know, you see, if you were those people, how would you find out?
You can charge, what the elasticity of the, find out, that's much too, how would you,
How would you survey the market?
How do you survey?
You go around and ask people, what would you do if we raised the price to $1,500?
You take yourself a small, isolated market and do it, see what happens.
Here is Minneapolis.
Like it to be a good market for this kind of business or a bad one.
You know enough about American gigantism, but probably the best in it.
That's why you wouldn't experiment with too much risk.
you're likely to be your worst one no no probably not no yeah you're probably wrong little rock you
probably have a fairly small group but don't forget that you offer something that is very
that is a real value and little rock you don't have many other opportunities
albuquerque i don't know new york probably good market no probably milwaukee a heavily working
class Midwestern is a poor market. You wouldn't go into your poorest market either. Anybody know
why one doesn't conduct market research, market testing in one's best market and in one's worst
market? No, you cannot. In your best market you risk too much and in your worst market the results
are not coming. You don't trust them because you see what you just said. You can predict the
outcome it isn't true they still don't trust you pick a market let me see for market testing
one picks a market which is represented but not terribly important and sufficiently isolated
so that a failure isn't that makes denver such a preferred test market you have a big enough
fairly high good market and yet separated from the next metropolitan communities which are
Salt Lake City on one hand, Albuquerque and Minneapolis by enough distance so that if
you lay an egg, you don't hear the cackling immediately.
One looks for a market like this, I don't know where these people come from, one looks
and tries and sees what happens.
Don't do what some of you suggested, which is to be bright.
Don't ever be bright, it's a road to...
marketing one is stupid and one they're right there you are they're worse the results because
marketing always you cannot pass it as a producer imagine the customer you still look upon your
product as a producer or supplier whether that product is a zipper or a college education you
cannot dissociate yourself from you know what quality in terms of the producer and let me say
in terms of the producer quality is nine times out of ten the engineers definition you know the
engineers definition of quality do we have any engineers here and it's hard to do costs a lot
and it's hard to tell you a secret that's not but yet it is the only way a producer can see
and you cannot see the realities of the customer for the very simple reason that the product
service you produce is in and if it isn't you do a bum job the vice presidents of procter are
convinced down to the last vice president that the american housewife spent at least three hours a
day discussing over the back fence the whiteness how many do you know who do and by the way how
would any of your good wives test the whiteness how many of them have a calorimeter at home you
have one that's relative whiteness is very difficult thing to test if any of your life
should start talking about the whiteness of your of her laundry make sure you know a good psychiatrist
It's a serious symptom of mental disease.
But the Procter & Gamble vice presidents better take their whiteness off them.
They have all kinds of things you wouldn't dream of having.
You know how about the temperature of the water in your washing machine?
Hell no. What difference does it make?
They better know. You know.
You measure that soap powder you put in.
then you weigh it first to one-tenth of an ounce or you just pour it in. They weigh it.
You know whether to apply it before the rinsing circle starts or after. No, you put it in
and forget it. They try it out. You experiment with what is the full load, do you? If you
did, I would put it at the store shop someplace else. But they do. They better do. And if
If they don't do it, if they are not concerned about the whiteness, the whole place will become sloppy and about the same.
They better take it. And therefore they are bound to believe that the rest of us have nothing else on our minds except the whiteness of the normal.
Or at least that it ranks exceedingly high on our minds.
Their wives have long ago, that when this topic comes up, they go to a corner and talk about children and cooking and so on, and pay no attention to them. But they aren't contradicting them openly, because they don't get them anything.
uh this is known this is the way it should be but it also means that your marketing ideas are going
to be the wrong or the brightness because they all start out with the assumption that the customer
is concerned deeply the point where it spends hours on it with the whiteness of the room all
right if the laundry comes out and there are big holes in it because the soap powder eats holes
into the laundry or it comes out and you put it in with ink stains in a few places it comes out now
the ink is evenly distributed but yes short of that i don't think much attention why because
other thing about which you probably saw one only but in market market where in a sample that is so
that one is that one is the composition representative nature those two you find in
every the third one you really find significant. Do you really get results from that funding?
If you were to test in this case, the sensitivity of the families of the youngsters who send abroad
to charges, to direct tuition charges, you would be concerned with the size of the sample,
the nature of the community but also is the fact whether you are going into a community in which
people are very enthusiastic or into a community in which they know nothing about it you want
neither you want the community that is has supported your program but isn't terribly
involved in it because otherwise you don't trust the results you're going to a very enthusiastic
community and you say well we know these people will do anything to support us and you go into
a community that has never done anything results are lukewarm you say well they don't know anything
the quality of the sample which the statistician does not in market testing is as important as the
size and the random result so that's one way that's easy the easiest way is if we could charge
those families extra $1,200 to pay. Any other ways? Let me say you start out with the wrong
approach to pricing. You start out with when you said the families. The families of the kids who
go abroad are not the beneficiaries. The kids are. One does not start out in pricing with the
assumption that somebody else pays the bill. One starts out with the question, how can we make
a beneficiary. Whenever you depend in pricing, there are two things to avoid. One is to be paid
for the byproduct and to deliver the main product as a giveaway or a sales product. That inevitably
means that you are going to put more and more service and more and more product in and get
paid less. And wherever you are in a situation where what you're being paid for is not what the
And the other one is where the beneficiary, the user, the consumer, the customer of the goods or service is not the one who pays the bill, but the bill is paid on his behalf.
The right pricing, one can't always do it, is the thing in which the beneficiary pays for the actual value risk and in which one then tries to reduce. And the parents, the kids, which kids come, the parents are not the beneficiary unless you put the value of getting rid of a teenager very high, which some of us do work even.
The beneficiaries are all the team and then which will require a wider horizon
whatever these things are tangible but apparently they appreciate them highly.
We have a question of how do you make them pay? They have no money today and
will have quite a bit of money 20 years hence and how do you build it in? Let me
say this is why our present program Paying for Colleges we have not yet the
beneficiary when he is able to. At age 18 he isn't, at age 38 he is. One reason why we haven't is that
we're afraid that the beneficiary will tell us that, this elasticity of demand, that in other
words you can do without it. Maybe it's in pricing, let me see. There are many ways of pricing. If you
can price in terms of the value of the service, you can price the ability to pay off the pricing.
is not that the fixed proportion of the income uh it's a pricing there are many ways of and not all
of them put the same price for in terms of total amount for the goods or service you might also
have the same price for everybody in terms of the portion of living or in terms of the proportion of
is totally a very old form. And so whichever way it is. But I might say that basically there is no
social why one should subsidize upper middle class to have a good time. Frankly of all the claims on
society I've ranked it. It's a very desirable thing for the individual. Maybe he may learn a great
deal. They may be a much better citizen as a result, and a much better citizen of the world
as a result, and a much better student as a result. Let me say, the one measurable result
program is that young people with students. Anything that gets them out of school,
you know that. I mean, that's why an anti-op program, a cooperative program with students,
spend a few may not teach them a great many saleable skills but i can assure you of those
properties they met you if only because they are no longer in time aid so may not learn a great
of it is not totally but the very fact that you live with people who are not that you find out
that filing scholarly notes with great content is not quite that easy uh on that for the 17 or 18
year old kid they're very much back and maybe because the world has become more meaning and
this is the great problem you know for so long the world is for learning uh and so maybe that's
the greatest impact very nothing wrong with it how much is it worth uh and how do you price it
and maybe you don't price it at all you make it clear that implicit in the bargain is that if and
when you start earning and you start giving money to charity what we're going to be high up on your
list of charities we have no legal claim on you but this is part of the home maybe that's enough
maybe you need a bargain that from 30 to 40 one percent of your earnings come to us probably all
you need more than enough one half ah no fixed amount maybe there's a repayment you don't know
that you have to but basically there is no way you can just really just supporting those kids
you know me just if i supporting your administrative overhead out of a foundation
that you can just this is the worthwhile activity and we need an administration and all right so we
need sixty thousand eighty thousand bucks and here the foundation is but you can't possibly
just if it works it has a claim on the very slender charity which are very slim uh so you know
when you look at it this way if i looked upon this as an essay what is our business what should it be
and first we raised the question at what point condition should you ask that it doesn't mean
that these are the only occasions at which you should ask it but at these occasions you better
asked and from that point of view that lawyer is right this is clearly very clear case the fact
that they've been around the fact that they have been so successful at him the fact that they have
grown so much and have that and the fact that there are a lot of symptoms of things that don't
quite jive with the way they see their business each of which by itself is a separate discrete
phenomenon but when you look at all of them you might say what there's a systemic problem
underlying them and then we said the first way first question is do we make any sense
or have we outlived our youth if we ever had any others still valid do we still serve to have the
means proven at least not inappropriate to the end or let alone comfortable and is the environment
still the environment we started out that is the most trenchant question and the one that
should always be asked first so it's not the proper body says don't rock the privacy they're
both rocking and then the next way of going is to say who is there you might then find this with it
in this one that's a custom that is the group that can make alone makes a buying that if it doesn't
make the buying decision. You have no access to them. You have no market at all. Control is a
group you haven't even seen. Very common. More common, say, in public services and businesses,
but not the number of people who sell machinery without realizing that the customer is the
specification engine and not the talking about. It's amazing who don't even know how to get to
the specification and yet let me say you make concrete pipe sewer pipe and if the specification
engineer in the city of claremont write specifications that call for iron cast iron
pipe it doesn't do the slightest bit of good that you have the best concrete pipe and the best
salesman their specs gives that business to cast iron pipe and you don't even know that there is a
specification engineer who is the one who makes the buying decision the real one the real bank
decision is not between your brand and somebody else's but between concrete pipe and cast iron
pipe and plastic pipe and ceramic whatever else and and it's a spectacle and it is amazing how
many businesses and do not know that in that paper mill the purchasing agent lets the order but the
The master mechanical runs it for linear screens, determines what is being formed, and he makes
a bank, and he, if he prescribes wire screens, and we make plastic screens, we ain't got
prayer, and if, and so, and if he doesn't know the performance specifications of plastic
screens, don't argue with me, I have no idea whether there are such things, at no point
haven't educated him, if I haven't gotten, I haven't reached the customer. And the number
of retailers who don't, still don't know the number of manufacturers that the retailer
makes a shelf-space decision and who do not realize that advertising is not directed at
the housewife, but the housewife is, so to speak, the wall against which you bounce the
advertising to reach the retailer. You know what I'm talking about? Very few know this.
And the housewife is not the target in most retailing, most advertising.
The retailer is. You address ostensibly the housewife.
And let me say, very interesting, that most of the large national advertisers
never make a survey of the extent to which they advertise,
even though he is the owner.
The housewife doesn't read advertising. She has more things, better things.
Ah, they mean to retail this shelf and gift, but then one says, all right, what do the few people do who apparently know how to run their business, let's say, profit and gamble?
You know, they make no surveys at all of the impact of the advertising message on the house, but I spend a hell of a lot of time and money on finding the impact on the retailer.
though he's never even mentioned. They know to whom they write the ad. They don't write it for Mrs. Housewife.
Mrs. Housewife is the echo chamber. So who is the customer? They're very important question.
And are we really running our business so as to satisfy his needs and expectations?
Do we even know what they are? And then are we pricing our product the right way?
or are we getting paid for the byproduct or getting paid by somebody expecting to get paid
by the non-beneficiary and why it's or are we subsidizing the wrong and just let me say our
friends here might well be advised to try to subsidize the host a little bit incidentally
there the one can predict the elasticity is very great 50 bucks or 100 bucks offer to the host
family would have a had you probably double them not because of the money but because of the
feeling that what we do is appreciate fabulous effect we don't know this is a bright yes
alternative what oh then yes no but would you for instance a travel club for them or have those
french families that have american children invited to come over to this country and stay
two weeks with an american family with whom they have in common that they had foreign kids
that's the kind of things yes how do you recognize and reward them uh this is also a form of subsidy
in a slightly subtler form though it may not cost you money it costs the effort so what can you do
in effect and let me see before what we know one would imagine the effect of very small token
gestures here to be unbelievably great that's what these families are waiting for a tiny
gesture of appreciation a few bucks an invitation what have you yes ma'am no we get we had six out
the last year what are they doing to keep them members of the family it's a real question
nothing is the answer because they see their customers those hopes those 17 year old hopes
tell those 17 year old oaks of raw material they're customers of the family and they don't see them.
Okay.
