point of this module so before we go on i thought we might want to look back on what we have done
so far and as you may remember the first case we tackled thank you very much first case we tackled
uh the questions you raised were really two one is uh what are the right questions to ask
in this kind of a situation where you discuss where you should be going from here having attained
a very considerable measure of success and the second one is how do you do it and we talked
essentially both about how one makes a fundamental business decision regarding the future and how
one makes a decision to quite separate things and you thank you very much and is this better
okay can you tell thank you okay thank you and you pointed out that this is a case in development
but looking much more broadly you know when you look around you see that the most dangerous thing
to happen is a promotion it's amazing how many of them fail and then you hear either the peter
prince uh there's managers doing their job you can see i'm not wrong it's the other fellow
incompetent boy you're here while joe was such a bright boy and i don't know what happened without
no what usually happens is that it argues here i was a sales manager in court a salesman they
made me C's manager so I must have been doing and therefore what made me successful is the right
things after things with a staff everybody who has ever learned this has learned it because
somebody has enough so it is part of who gets it if and when you really change the job you say this
is not the case the best example the career ladder in which you may make a career to the very top and
And yet the job never changed.
She's the loan officer in the big committee.
She was then the nation's 10-year chief, the country's most pending officer.
She started at age 16, bringing business into the corner, and ended up as chairman of it.
The only thing that changed is that there were more loaners who started out despite what she could make without somebody else's approval.
Other than that, the job did not change.
And in a way that explains why the chief champion became chief for the first time in his life. He had a disturbing chief executive. He never changed. He continued to an outstanding 10 years of management. Continued to a lending officer. Maybe that was a little. But this is one other than that. It's genuine. I know.
But he said, we had one here, you have been in the park, and you are still doing very nicely.
You can have seven, eight, ten, whatever happens.
It looked so promising.
And I looked, and other people thought, ah, one has to come together, let me see.
One of the lessons to learn from this case is that one asks the question, what is our business?
Then the danger of complacency, though we continue in this doing,
even though it's not. It is terribly hard to train one to see where principles are.
And the next lesson, one then asks is what? Particularly not in a situation where you have
people available after. Then one uses opinion to shoot oneself in on the range.
Stimulates the imagination to force oneself.
And above all, one first gets the opinions, and then one says
is that adequate and does it include at least enough and one option and then one
within definition deserves to be but one also says all right this proposal
assumes after certain things about the demograph let's valid no there's one
quick look immediately raise question one uses such opinions as don't go the
way don't start out cannot eliminate the idea that one can get it together what
the 10 or 15 say empty your mind free content work the belief that be object
essentially saying you expect past without being opinions and experience
depression oh it's only a moron but it's also a misunderstanding of past
standards one reaches understanding by experiencing but one uses it to
untested hypothesis, things about an untested, first thing, always something lacking.
So something one always overlooks, something one doesn't see.
And the other thing is that, the way they state it, inappropriate.
In other words, you may have, you have two assumptions in there which are not,
or you're trying to include in the hypothesis, not one set of phenomena, but two halves of two different sets.
And that is the purpose of, is not to find out the validity.
To find out how does that get validated.
so you're dealing with them tests that have assumed something by the tail become 10 cheap
nor do you have do any of you know what brand you have in all you care about you want a switch but
if the contractor says you know you ought to have six you're going to have six you only have
additional seven but that is he makes it by the longest of and then whether the demand is
a few hours or multiple and have narrowly their need a second we tackle is a very different case
let me see by the way we could have tackled these cases again here is what we tackled it as a case
in thinking through is what determines that identity we develop some rather simple but
criteria so the customer is essentially whoever can make the buying decision that
In that sense, the customer is defined by restraint.
Here we have 25 potential students.
Our customers are the families, they are the bottom.
They determine how many students we can place.
This may change in fact.
The adoption agency is a very good example.
Where 30 years ago, the adoption agency saw the abandoned babies as their customers had.
until they realized that the abandoned babies aren't the beneficiaries of all the adopted parents.
And they became a service agency to parents searching to adopt.
And from that moment on, mind you, they had a shortage of babies
because the end of the telescope completely changed the market.
And the adopting agencies began to ask, not forgetting, began to ask,
it might want in another five you have to uh so even if you uh case the family consider value
what are they looking for recognition remember you brought up the uh rewards and recognitions
would really make membership in this really meaningful really something people may want
whether for monetary reason statement thank you and then the changes you are and then you are
The financial job, finance, what are the benefits and ways that they need, you know, advanced financing, not done, fractured, unenforced demand, new job, what have we got? Is there other means? There we were not clear in our answer because, I mean, we don't know enough and really all that because we're dealing with an intangible.
Now it just had not been that intangible, a service agency, but let's say a hospital, I think we would have said, why do you measure it? Here we have it, and it's tangible, and no one can say it as far as it doesn't do. The original objective, not being worse by it, but as to the means being approved, the better.
And so, but here, the way one is being really spent, clearly for service, tend to be paid, but do not get paid skewed. And this is fundamental. Where, when a specific concrete, it isn't always easy, really, payment. And if and when a business is doing it, you then have the major success, the major innovation of Xerox.
They don't. What if you live with a New York serviceman?
They have very, very fragile cars. You looked at it and said,
nothing's that fragile. We'll have a big business.
Had a point. Great innovation. If anybody had come to you and said,
we want you to pay $4,000 for it, you would have said, we have a perfectly
good mimeograph machine, $204 some. But they came to you and said, $5,000.
You know perfectly well that it costs. Don't make it cost. Didn't know.
stop think the late things that are coming through the suit in now out with how much would such a
machine cost they came out this 4900 and i was going to pay and then somebody don't want the
machinery out machine the luxury by uh we're more solid with your prices by a statistic and not
saying for example anybody knows we have street lights out here who put them up you know in all
probability but it would be well we're probably not clear i don't know and likely for the utility
whether they will supply one of the near monopoly bodies but no product difference doesn't have yet
the brilliant idea you see lighting is paid for by local government minor fractional lighting
or like to find out their country and operate the operate discuss nobody ever shows up but
But a bomb issue, that becomes, you know about, don't you?
And so what he said is if we can price it in such a way
that it does not become a capital,
then that's it.
He's on the fresh streets of Bethel, Maine.
Nobody ever complains.
Too much spit here is at that door.
You have muggles and so on.
So he's under constant pressure to put in more.
But on the other hand, he's very, very gun-shy
about putting anything in the capital.
How would you price it?
When he never leased streetlights, he shifted from selling to leasing, and in four years that he, simply because they made it possible to do something he wanted to do in a way that fitted his financial, this is not a rash, right, this is, financially this is completely a rash, but in terms of politics, this is something the city engineer can do, and as long as he doesn't have to, he can plan on the best optimal streetlighting he can get.
and nobody is going to ask him or oppose him or make like if you can do it on a professional basis
never mind so this is the right price the reality and this is the reality for the american in
england would make no sense of english the only one budget they have only one government only
one but it's no sense to price into a government so that it's capital expenditure rather than
operate. What you pay for, we pay for pay-per-click, and what we pay for a new supersonic
bomber, of course, our budget's been around a long time. It's a reality. He may say this makes my job
very difficult, and that there is a clear amount he should, but he has no control over it. Operating
budgets, not indebted budgets, we're rarely questioned by the capital expenditures in the
Here we are, operating expenses, the law says you have to raise taxes, you're operating
expenses, in most states I don't know what kind, all automatic, the rate goes up, if
you operate a bond issue, no, there's no law that says you have to ask to approve a bond
issue, and traditionally in this country they vote to write down more bond issues than they
have approved, so years are very rare, very often, traditionally the nation is to say
no to a bond issue, with good reason, and the case.
