i don't know i just wonder whether we shouldn't take something that is quite different uh because
that health care is really again pushed on what is i'm not sure that we shouldn't how would you
like number one the research strategy other people whoever this one yes we have this no no so more
than one time that's one to take that next you know we get around it okay yeah i think that'll
before number eight let me see i wrote no reason why you shouldn't i wrote this case people made
this case that how much money are we going to charge mobile they need us badly they've just
just take no you made you made a bid for marco which is the holding company uh and they were
successful i think that in another year they probably wish they hadn't been but uh because
it's going to find it very tough there's nothing to believe me more eroding number two and in marco
montgomery ward which is now no longer number two but number four the multi-container corporation
of america number two but five running terribly hard and yet not believe it to stay for spite
running very hard to make this so if we tell them what we're doing i think we'll elect the market
and have him they are largely almost and i have not straight out of but let's first take an hour
in its 20th year exceedingly fast and very profitable in the name and that many ways are
very fortunate because the people who built the stage so that it serves to the point where they
can't really face up to it and there's an old saying that one generation can only make sound
success so much then after defend of your own path one generation to very soft soul and here
And then, in many ways, it is very helpful.
The pink buildings.
What they are, you might go even expecting a new one.
But what I'm seeing, wonderful, incredible, and there is a disappointing chance to stand
buildings.
There we are.
As long as we're in the wilderness, we have kept discipline.
Certainly here, we're on the Promised Land, where there's plenty of water.
All the fights about water.
That alone.
So it takes a different leader, a challenge.
And Moses, after those four, knew one way.
one way. And so he would, as we see, he would then have created yesterday's problems because
those he knew how to fight, he knew how to tackle. But here we have the situation that
that generation has gone through and those three have become very beautiful, very happy,
very happy with Cleomont's life. They see it only, they're very sick. So, at the same
time, they might have seen them, just to sweat them and ask what's very good for them. Nobody
So the Lord's been free for a while, and the Providence has never been negotiated, and so they have been very poor.
Who knows the business? Who knows it? Who are not committed?
Taking over and also taking over at a time when they need to ask questions, they need to make decisions.
Nobody's going to quarrel with them, and if they have to take drastic action, lay off,
And then, well, they're only doing whatever the other wants to do.
They are, in many ways, very poor.
They can move, but at the same time, they can't get the need to make it.
Again, we have three alternatives ahead of us.
Experienced, intelligent men, quite different.
So where do you want to start this?
Pattern engagement is successful.
Why can't you rule it out?
I don't think you can.
Really, it's not thought of by anybody else.
Do we have a patent lawyer in this room or patent agent?
Where's John Borey?
No.
Look, the patent law which is stringent, it has given a good deal of the question, you would not go along with it.
Patent law would say that a new configuration, the design patent, they are innovation.
So, you have a different fashion in which you took a blouse, but nothing fundamentally new.
configuration of known elements, giving you something that I'm genuinely, well let's see,
an English ado each day, but not the things that haven't been done in this, not because
of legal, because when you have as drastic a change in this financial as we have had,
in which within an incredibly short time, the channel of capital formation had moved
from a very large number, the isolated, but to a fairly small number of highly constant herbs,
to whether you realize that there is no pressure in destructive energy and sound.
It's doubtful. Part of the general belief is that one can invest today, tomorrow's income cannot do.
The income tomorrow has to come out of the gross national. Seeing it's such elegant language,
The pensioner doesn't live, he lives off bread, which have to be produced at the time, and with the willingness to, and they're overdoing it.
We'll be very feeble, not the few of them, the number of people who reach retirement age, many more of them are still going, not the number of the other, going down very short.
The number of people whom one man or woman, one working person, has to support, assuming reasonably for it, are non-workers.
will go down by about one point so will be more receptive and don't invest in there you have very
little otherwise so they're not engineered so one can but that's the biggest change of a highly
developed and everybody but the few traditional nitpickers on put it on you know and right
why if you go down the road you have to uh but it only means that a pension benefit so that we will
have come the nationalization of the american economy without sociality the socialization
because without national distrust or wealth because they leave out the personal wealth
percent of 42 and owned was never even developed set off to go and within different enriched
capitalists before beneficial owners they're not if you have a shift like this i can assure
you that you have plenty and that's not the problem is what's right and in such a situation
a good reason to believe that unless it's because in such a situation one assumes that 99.999
partly because it doesn't fit either you don't notice or you say this is abnormal in class
or you say this is abnormal and we need a law feedback you don't see this how does it work and
secondly because there is prima facie cases that in such changes different assumptions
so i wouldn't say this say that quest smith said uh
who shrugged off his couch to know better you see
changes in the capital market nothing has changed in it all
there's no other unchanged uh or very little
uh and yet there has been a very real change
it entered in the first reaction to it and it's always
always wrong reactions people dimly perceived but they react
wrong one reaction clearly was the reaction
A conglomerate is essentially a packet of a new class of industrial reaction, but the problem, what do they need?
It's a legitimate, and it is unlikely, need what?
They don't know yet what.
We have yet to secure it.
We have yet to see one that asks, what are we trying to do?
Let alone one that realizes that an institutional investor cannot be, that cannot talk.
You have to buy the average.
You are good if you do as well as the average.
You're doing very well.
Not impossible.
impossible for the same reason for which if your role if you toss a coin in the south unless it's
necessary and but but then unless you have and uh fortunate and uh but short of the coin isn't
worth plus somebody anybody who's going out can do much more under pressure and that all right
that will they will have to then we will have to uh and a few others and so i want you to
realize in their base that was totally ending nobody and that's that we made a decision by
default we could have gone very easily the way in which we funded our general tax no funding
nervous no other words because this is what we wanted we're not enamored uh went by purax
something there we were running down but it had eventually maybe beneficial
damaging but there we are realized a market there's been a more profound change in the
market in Antwerp than in the market for toast or any other product or in the market for jars
of the three markets this is the market that in this country changed the most from a business
question what do our securities have to uh well what do we have to do so get the most benefit
we need and this we have to live and it's becoming a highly structured market and incidentally a
highly homophobic, stiff-fronted, misbehaved, very much the same way.
I'm sorry, we are late.
But you can only do it by running the business the way, the kind of business it grows to.
Nickel and dime, commodities of the States.
But if you want to have more than all, well, get enough of it.
And now, the Roush.
One doesn't have to go quite as far as the paper in which I worked when I was there,
doing what they told me.
in helixes, the circulation of almost half a million helixes.
But the knee rings, at the hands of the knee,
we had to lift it up, and we had to telephone.
It wasn't on the low side, they were huge, big,
in the war, if I wanted to telephone,
I hold out to the fellow in the next one,
to put the telephone through the flap so that I could hear them.
What was a young man's game? And every other week, old Mr. Hess would come and look at my desk and say,
Mr. Sutter, you haven't written that much for your pencil to be that, that far down the road.
How can you do it? And actually true. But we thought it was funny. And it was. But he knew what he was doing.
The old man was playing in my department.
We took the streetcar, and not the taxi.
We moved to the west of the streetcar.
And, but we had a fantastic, very friendly family,
more money than most people in the early 30s and early 40s.
I worked 18 hours a day with another man,
and enjoyed every minute of it.
We were probably about time we were different things.
If I were to let this start, it would be a little too strange, but you were right.
It was run by a very tough man in the military, very, very technical, and a good man.
You know what I mean? But the tone was set quite well on this one.
No, it wasn't. No words on this one. No solution.
maybe it's a little over them, but they're not the people that are so good,
if he wanted to buy a store, he wouldn't let anybody with him,
according to Chet Suu Kyi no more,
then he'll take thousands of thousands, ten thousands of thousands,
and they'll sell it without any competition,
a god or a child or whatever it is called,
and it's not an enemy of Chet Suu Kyi,
the boss said
Churchill was going to be great
he said you probably got a good
problem
I said well I apologize
you know
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
but
