I don't know whether it's because it's such a nice walk through the fact that food has unfortunately improved so much that we don't get back to what was a typical fact. You know that.
I can't put maybe the answers on them, but Case, where do you want to get going?
I think there's some stuff. At last, we kind of reached a point where the third man said tame.
Can you all hear him?
Yeah.
No.
And back there shakes their heads.
So the two ladies there shakes their heads.
So we better speak up.
I was saying I think objective for what we're doing.
I think that's like my impression is that he has the...
He awaits the storm.
Anybody wants to come in?
I think through the opportunity tomorrow.
Or maybe they should go out of it.
Their customer seems to have changed or at least their customer's needs have changed.
the customer has become large enough to do what this company offers themselves
to do and one aspect of it and there seems to be a loss of their maybe yes
well now in the first place let me see pension funds are in that sense like armies
a small army is a hell of a big organization with the Marine Corps is a
small military so maybe a small pension is not several hundred there may be but
But also, you have 15 or 20 of those who do their own research and leave.
I don't have to do it myself.
They don't make their living selling.
They make their living getting commission business in recognition.
And those, I mean, still get paid for it.
It's really true that you cannot be the average.
Then, for instance, trading.
So they're turning over, trying to switch from one thing that looks good
to something that looks a little better and so on becomes a very expensive cannot signify uh
anybody you know enough about to tell me whether that since came the idea of trading a lot of
thinking through where you invest if you look at where the results anybody know the institutional
investors who have had results the ones that work work very different in this country the example
The leading example are the Mellons. You see, that's 80 years ago.
The post for Pearson in England, Flick in Germany. Those are the accountants.
They don't manage it. Sure, there's management. They are friends. They're very different.
But they don't trade. They started Goldfarb or Rubber Company.
And they started it. And sure, they were bankers, so they are investors.
In management, Pearson, Great Glen Park, Major Pipe.
And the German people.
A few other things.
As investment financials, he's explaining, if he don't run the fiduciaries, they cannot really hope it's better than the average.
They will spend a little more time on their decisions and not so that it isn't a matter that they do receive, not that they will have nothing.
They have very little, particularly if you eliminate and you are going to load, do other things that over-encourage funds.
You know, you may get much closer to, anybody knows the model of the capital market towards which we are drifting to get there.
Our capital market is organized one way. You know any other way of organizing a capital market?
Where would you look? How do you develop a country instead of a capital market?
A system of providing capital, one way or another.
Well, I'm not so sure I would look, you know.
But, at the opening of Sengland, now it's all different.
Uniquely, nationally, we speak both basic Glenn and accent.
Well, it's a intermediary market in which what are now the three large banks are the capital market.
Each of them is a capital market. Each of them has enough of them.
A certain industry, a certain manufacturer, is essentially within the sphere of one of the joint.
And one of the three is record-based.
The bank itself holds, maybe only, but the public holds shares through the bank.
the bank, the bank, the bank can vote, street names cannot be, the bank can vote, the owner
gives, it's done within, to get them out, and you have a very illiquid market, it has
its limitations, young and growing companies, but also the fact that the main reasons why
they are eager to sell themselves, the nationality out of the earth, we are not getting them,
it's in the shares of the intermediates, so in whatever we have, it's out or not, so maybe
We aren't there yet. We may never get there.
But I think that this idea that there isn't, they can pay for it.
And that may be very dubious.
Commission income, will you even be permitted as a pension fund?
That's the way we are going.
Replace one way or another.
It will become principal trading.
Exchanges which are member, smaller, especially, I think, will be very great.
Because under this, you will have to justify expenditure.
Being in the interest can't trade. You sell U.S. Steel and you buy Besslehem and U.S. Steel goes up and it's down.
You're the damages. Personally, the burden of food is likely to be quite no setting up.
It's a tough standard oil to stop me. I don't know that.
I don't think that if you're interested in U.S. Steel, what price do you put the last hundred shares?
The public price is $9,990.
There's no reason why I should even if the commission is negotiating it, no.
So you might easily, I'm not saying they have a situation in which there is no commission business, and I sure could not justify to pay you a fee for this. I've got my own research. How do I justify to a regulatory commission, the state insurance commissioner in the sovereign state of California, state securities developer to see I'm going to get caught by, but I'm between those two and a few others.
How can I just report the 8th Ph.D., all equipment management, and that pays some?
It just fucking need not have. It isn't going to go that way, it sure isn't.
So, it's the question of whether they're PC and economists never talk the effort.
Whether they're needed is relative.
What research is in this particular, they're racing thousands in unity.
I'm saying that, uh, in a basic structural change such as we have,
one cannot rule out the mechanisms that have been well as we know it depends on financial economic
structure and if the structure changes and change it might become totally secure uh in most of not
england uh market is not and it's a very was a very effective reality they are changing enough
so argue there's always let me see what i'm really trying to never do there's always any things or
it's in that sense that they're independent of the social or economic and the need psychologically
it's an institutional convenience and this is up to the fact this may change and what while they're
very useful to it becomes either a marginal one or a useless one and the world is going to live
happily ever after without new york stock exchange houses one doesn't argue there always be any one
has to argue a little more solidly than that. How does one approach this? One man who says, in effect,
let's do even better what we are already good at. There is another man who says, estimates are what.
Here's another man that thinks and decides. We are for changes might. He asks you the
first question, which is the last sentence of it. What do you think? Here's a large,
fairly large been around 20 years but it is also on days since such a situation to look
start in the mentors or there's one and then they've done many other things
security's business or yesterday i don't know uh the last few weeks uh well but everybody else did
accept mary lynch and they did not make them uh uh which by the way may be an opportunity
may actually be higher not lower but he has a big ongoing business can you actually change it
or it's the only way you can change it by liquidating the old and starting all over what
do you think our success of gravity when a yellow street people do they have in between how many of
you have been very good at moving into you know one but i'm not the one who tries very hard uh
That's a key question. How likely of success is this?
You know, who tried? Anybody know the man?
Very prominent man in the American economy business.
Seriously tried? In a big order to make a totally new animal out of it?
Succeeded? Yes or no?
Or used?
What?
Used?
I don't know. Used but really booted out of a few aircraft by the U.S. Air Force.
And without that he would probably be still stuck in there.
Oh, no. When Janine took over in the late, when was it, 50s? Anybody know what IT&T was?
It was a company domiciled in America, which had no business in it.
The center of the business was not telephone companies in Chile.
That they began equilating in 1950.
They missed, they have left, they've missed it.
Wanted to get increasing the price and negotiate, and then the tide turned.
They just missed the past six weeks, or they would have been out of the region.
when the U.S. Supreme Court, or maybe it wasn't the force,
way back in the 80s,
operating telephones picked up a lot of prices,
and then used the various skills to integrate back into the electronics industry,
but not in the United States,
where you had no kind of outsiders.
There was no point going into the American telephone equipment business
until you had a monopsy and a supplier.
So he bought them in Germany, in Belgium,
and in every one of them, he bought them.
By the end of the Depression, he had still a fair number of operating companies.
He left Peru with an essential telephone in semi-independence.
Good, but not in England, and a minor share of the very good telephone system.
They were completely broke.
Total financial defect that only one man even knew,
before the visit of the United Arab Emirates, the German company, the very good company.
And then this country was attracted to a company.
I thought, yes, original objective proved either unattainable or not.
Which was the go-go stock market of the city, not very attractive.
But the electronics business of Actonville, before it was what it used to be,
seemingly a non-American business.
Number two, in no country, no market, had two or number three roads.
Essentially not marginal, but not leading either.
And so he went into all kinds of things, ending up with insurance companies.
rationalizing the strategy. I'm not saying that the AT&T monopoly would be broken one way or another by modern technology.
It's probably a sound bug. It's a time span bug. Nearly as bad as he would have expected. Now, ten, twelve years later, the AT&T is...
But it's still an elephant attacked by Nats. But that's about all.
And I think that I think that by probably by combination of the very act in what was a sound and I think that's just what we get.
Because one always argues the way you did here that autumn is going to be a market for what we have might be because...
