We're meant to make things clear and not manage to confuse everybody.
But here it was, here we are.
The investing house is another example where a company said,
we are in the old businesses, we have to start in the new ones
where the main dynamics of economy and society are going to be
serious business and so on anybody know whether it succeeded or not well they've just written them
off uh with scary substantial losses uh perhaps the businesses were sound but all right you're
going to whatever it is and you break your back building up a 10 million or 20 million dollar
business and next to it you're here is your turbine business and it's 400 million bucks
a billion dollars or whatever it is and it's in trouble you're really going to let your good
people work on the 10 million dollar business i really think you maybe you know you should do it
but are you really do you think you're capable of that kind of extreme of self-flagellation
or don't you see that here you have said meeting with the executive as president short of the table
business and you see george doing very badly i've got to do better and he says look if you wanted
to do better you have to give me the people and he instead of the moment i have a capable man you
pull him off and put him into that goddamn nonsense how much do you have the eight million dollars of
sales how much are you gonna put your forecast shows in 1985 you're going to have 25 million
dollars if you want me to do better you pulled harry off and you put jim off and you put george
off, and now you want to take Bob away from him. Now make up your mind. You want me to get results
in a tough business, really competitive. I have to have good people. If you don't want to have results,
you're willing to let the turbine business go down the spout. Okay, but it's 400 million bucks,
and here are the forecasts for what the utilities are going to build the next 10 years,
and if we do the kind of job I know we can do, I can easily lift it to 700, 300 million dollars
additional business when are you going to get this get that much out of educational technology
whatever that may be uh you really think that you can then say look we have made up our mind
we're fighting a real good action to put our shit on education and that's when man is going to lose
every one of those arguments how would you have really can't justify even though i know that by
1985, this is where the business is. So in the meantime, how do we get through these 10 years?
The approach of our friend Smith Opera is not serious trouble. It is, for the time being,
not doing terribly. It lives to the right. The other half of the financial houses are doing
well. The other half is not doing terribly well, but nobody's starving here. There are the customers,
yachts, a partner who takes me from out of town down to East of Koonloops, Goldman Sachs, Seligman's yacht,
Joplin's yacht. Now, you're still at the point where the yacht basin is full.
I've been in Danish yachts, and the presence of the Lord is obvious in some Italian sites.
We'll see each other again. We really want to see that.
uh liquidate while you're still ahead
then one does not start out with the commitment to and one let me see one thing that do not have
no then go into and say well do not make ever rule number one is what makes one decision at
the time. It doesn't make one contingent on the other. The decision what to start a new business
is don't make most can be what have you. And the final rule, it don't make, in other words,
the question whether the decision can actually be carried out. And the great weakness of so much
policy, the great danger of the whole concept, is that it implies that it is a non-operational.
You know that old Washington story of the cockroach and the butterfly.
I'm only a policy maker. That decision, that the cockroach has to become a butterfly,
is not a decision because there is no way of making it operational.
And therefore this is a policy, not a decision.
But it is also not a policy. And when people say that this is only a policy,
They mean it would be awfully nice if we knew how to do it.
Or if anybody could.
That is, one looks at it.
It would be very different.
The only conclusion, let me say, this is going to be very different.
They said you have to start early and work hard.
If it is possible, chances of it being possible.
And available decisions.
It would be very nice if it could be, but it's not good.
One doesn't accept it.
The White House did not finally want me to accept it.
It would be awfully nice, but chance whatever.
Whatever, Claremont story, a few years ago, very great pressure, the medicals know that story, don't they, Lou?
You still do?
Yeah.
But our distinguished colleagues in the sciences in the Claremont Colleges felt that they had enough,
they had to supply the pre-med, the medical scientists and biological and so on scientists.
I think it was an illusion, but never mind.
The physicians in the community felt strongly that there is much more justification.
There are a great many of them teaching in the US, in Malinda, in UCLA, and that we have
meetings of a good faculty, clinicals for everybody, bigger medicals.
And then normally, one day a week, that's elephant.
But at least they are cost bigger.
That's because they have been asked by the Government Monday, Foundation Monday.
What have been very nice, what have been very desirable, it might be to serve the real service.
But it just could not be done.
That converting what may even be a good community hospital could be done.
If you want to get the kids taught and so on.
There is no way of organizing.
Can one really go about it the way he wants to?
If we have an exam and what do you come up with? Can you give us a generic term for what you come up with? What are you trying to develop? What is the ideal model? An ideal model. This is what we would like to be or like we have control of.
There's something else you might have to do at the same time to be useful.
Everybody's seen a business that has done it? It's very common. It's very common in what is known as planning.
Has it ever worked? Oh, that's part of the ideal model, the religious view.
Totally outside the establishment. Totally outside the establishment.
No relationship. Not everybody gets a blank check.
Let's assume that our military had known about the work on the atomic bomb, they didn't know, would they have stopped the other things, the torpedoes and the traditional guns? Why not?
Partly because, of course, nobody knew what you would come up with, if anything, in the atomic bomb, and when.
But also because you can't dismiss the establishment if it's there.
Maybe in such a situation you have to carry water on both shoulders.
It's known to be difficult, not impossible, but to be burdensome.
it's maybe you have to see we have to work both on developing what we have and then developing
the new book somewhat in parallel partly because you don't know whether you'll come up with
anything in developing uh and when how soon and what it'll look like because you cannot they're
And not just psychologically, economically too.
You cannot just, you can live with it, don't live.
Improving and optimizing it.
So maybe the decision is, in what we are doing, is there any fear?
If there isn't, we don't live.
Find an optimization strategy.
You're impressed by the two strategies you have offered,
or do you see other or perhaps better options?
And at the same time, we may have to spend hard work on an ideal model.
And then one has a very difficult job of putting some things that might not be needed.
What do we have to give way on the model to fit something you're willing and able to change?
It at least does not lead us, it may not lead us, but at least it does not push us into a leader trade-off.
come from. There are too many people who are the prisoners of your time. You can only get out of it by an effort.
Or if you are getting such vicissitudes, it's a perfect shell.
Let me give you a very good example. You all have heard of the Rothschilds. Now for about
70 years, the Rothschilds were technically quite profitable.
The capital became so great that the private banks
certainly because the Rothschilds were never business. They were government.
18th century government, and the development of effect finance, even in banana republics.
There was a traditional 18th, early 19th century bank of finance, the Napoleons, the English in the port of Vienna,
or the Mexican government that was never rusted, but the Argentinian government.
It's simply supposed that government's monetary needs were of the order of 20 or 30 million pounds.
so that one could float the bond issue underwriten.
And secondly, presuppose that governments with financial do what is not a touch of self.
And by about 1850, governments in Europe began to learn how to do this.
And by 1910, the United States Federal Reserve ordered more.
The Open Market Committee of self-help did the job much better,
but in their opinion, clearly.
They needed distributors, but not underwriters.
And so the Rothschilds, who not only didn't have the means to move into their new finance field, which required the ability to bring together all these nice sums, way beyond their dreams.
Nobody realized the issue that's placed to the government under the 9th.
Well, 5 million pounds today, you know that, but today's current president, half a million dollars.
That finances one division in HEW for 24 hours, roughly.
But not the whole one and a half year long vote.
And all the Rothschilds went in the cryptoma. They did establish essentially a financial barrier, but until afterward, what was it? And then somehow the entrepreneurs that came to become very rich families, I remember, went into collecting fleas, when others went into this, and others went into they don't do that.
Then after, during, we look at you, and then at the same time, will anybody know where the money is?
You're not having weeks to point it where they have to examine the foundations of the commonwealth.
GE, you're not rid of a lot of it, but being essentially organized yourself for managing the existing, the ideal model.
The key, okay, you have a business, particularly one that's been that successful, that big, and not really this big.
though you are worried about it, that it's on the critical list,
maybe it's on the serious list, but not on the critical list,
then you do have, essentially, you have two strategies
which start with different assumptions.
And maybe, whether you are satisfied with the two approaches
to the optimist practice, men whose staff are valid...
Okay.
It means that we don't really break them in a way that...
But the higher universities are great at seeing
that in this particular case, we've lost.
When you actually can look at the gaps of the trade, you can see that the non-products obtained at fabulous rates of research, they're gold mines.
You couldn't build a money mine to call out a product that you needed to do.
But you have to wait to sell the mine.
You have to wait five years, one year.
So, and that is, there's something wrong with the sense that this can't last.
It can happen, obviously, but you don't have to stand by it.
But it can't last.
Economically not possible.
Something is going to happen.
You don't know whether competition is going to bring it down or an end to that easy innovation.
So that innovation will become expensive and risky.
Or politically controlled, you don't know what it is.
But you know, as far as I think you know, one can predict that a young man, so many young men think that bigamy is a tenable form of life.
One girl in Oakland and one girl in Berkeley. I had a son who died just for five years.
One girl in Palo Alto, one girl in Berkeley. One can predict that this is going to, sooner or later, going to blow up.
It's not going to work, but I can't tell how, but it is, but for five years maybe, but it's not going to work. There's two, one, the demands are to break on everybody.
And when I said that to that young man of mine, he said, what's going to happen?
I said, I don't know what, but I know something is.
And when it happens, you'll know.
And it did, of course.
And so one can also say that if you see an industry in which the risk of the business is lower than the cost of having it,
you know this is a joyride, it's not a, no, it's going to happen, nothing's going to happen,
one, you don't know, but one also knows it's not, it's not, and so in the form of
people, why is our president's ratio so low?
I think it's important.
You're only a fool, you're a person, you're a finger, and there are things that you think,
the cost of Africa can at most be put to the risk, if there are risks, I mean, the risks
Can it possibly be that your properties are excessive from the beyond, different properties?
You're not, you're not. That's between the two of you.
And that's not going to last. I don't know what that's going to do.
But some things are much more than good.
And so one looks at the risks and tries to assess them, and I pointed to the common thinking space, in which one doesn't go by what's different within the financial system, or what looks like.
Everybody knows there's a high rate of innovation, a high rate of change, there's a high rate of risk, and in you, you're in there.
When you look at the pharmaceutical industry, you think, oh, you're being told that you may have a low risk because not great rate of change, not high rate of change.
But then you look at the actual performance, you may not be in one of the...
where you were very low, technological changes, demands were very flat, and so on,
who were told that essentially the risks were very low, and then you had financial performance,
it was very nice, cost of capital, and much, and so that you had an industry in which cost of,
just was driven by cost of capital was inadequate, this is one reason why the industry is in poverty,
I think we stand out from each other. Therefore, you can no longer obtain capital at market cost.
You can get capital at the end of the day.
And so one thinks that profit is profit as an indicator of economic growth.
But not really.
But one starts out with, if you're in a social investment market, you can get profit.
You can get profit at the end of the day.
You want to analyze an industry, or even a company.
The general attitude is that you want to analyze a company.
So when you find a business that has a little bit of capital,
and it's either a home or a very big business,
you will decide.
You will feel it is perfect that it is there,
that it is a good business.
Or in the long run, between five years,
you actually go to the end of the road.
Okay.
I think we have linked this case.
Well, I'll be seeing you in the next meeting.
