and one of my accomplishments was to support the condominium, and promptly told my agent to ask for higher terms in a contract, which the agent didn't come, and fabulous, and it's very good, but the kitchen, the home club, in the first place, there's still the tradition of maids, and so the visitors of the house are not very concerned about the kitchen, although that's changed.
But also, Leibniz very lush, I believe. Leibniz is not the word, but it's almost in the context. It reminded me very strongly of that famous old Nazi time story when Marshall Goering, who always appeared in this most decorated uniform, was meant to steal up a new uniform.
Mr. Field Marshal looked very much like that, not all though, but very much on that taste.
No window, a dank door, and the consciousness of the fact that you couldn't possibly wash the dish at the sink
I think, while standing at the range of his stool,
he would latch at the till.
And that was the deep, most extreme of the process,
that he was looking at, and to pick it.
It was a long time ago.
So there was a kid this kind,
go out every week, she would go out every day.
Then she'd go to shop, and how does he get a needle?
And the other thing is that this is still largely a wine hall,
The children have public transportation to school, the husband uses the car to go to work.
There was a wife who didn't have a car yet to get in the room, so she goes shopping by streetcar or by taxi, but very long.
And again, it doesn't carry very much.
And then there was an out-of-town shopping center, except for France,
where the monopoly of the in-town rich and the soil is beautiful, the prices are so fabulous,
so that the out-of-town shopping centers, and in-town you're not allowed to build them.
You have to move out in the country, so they build those, what they call, hypermarkets and rooms.
The prices are high for what they're encountering.
Well, that gets people to drive, to shop, and somehow to solve the segregation problem,
what they probably do is throw the potatoes in the basket.
basket and we have no other storage space but still if you get potatoes for one sale or once
it has to stay in town that's what you do but the short of those extreme government
created conditionally don't drive out the shop for all you know or they don't pay for food
so you may find that your basic assumption of the shopping mall shopping center
the market segmentation, the neighborhood segmentation, and not the generation segmentation,
the whole marketing strategy would work. Now, these things you can find out quite fast,
provided you ask people. And other things you may have a terribly difficult time to
to find out such that we see a simple question of uh does the european emerging affluent middle
class yesterday still buy still shop as a in class market or not you know what i'm talking about
what i'm talking about is that five or six years ago tiffan is in new york everybody you know what
stories, Indos not there, the other side of where the Indians live.
Tiffany's advertised Mother's Day presents for $9.99.
And I went there, just to flip that. There were a lot of very nice young women,
dragging by two squealing rats in themselves in blue jeans,
And by, mind me, in Tiffany's, they probably did the whole thing with wool that's for 99 cents, but that's after all a mother's gift present is, for Tiffany's, is something very different.
And well worth the extra nine dollars, I think.
So, now this is the revolution. The grandmothers, the grandmothers of those kids had never heard of it, never. But certainly they would never have gone into, gone to town with the shop.
And the mothers of these kids will know that the only people who shop at Tiffany's are either the wives of the very rich or the mistresses of the very rich, but probably the latter.
And everyone of those young women was perfectly willing to go straight from Tiffany to the two guys from Harrison, the studying and the teaching, equivalent of, I don't know, a very low-priced discount, I don't know what you are doing,
into the bargain basement and buy blue jeans for those two little brats there.
Without any, well, their mother or grandmother also would have done it.
But let me say, the poor know that they cannot afford to shop in the bargain basement.
They get jobs, they get chips, they get cheese.
They know that. They have learned that the hard way, the poor will never buy this and write this.
That girl, in other words, no longer had any feeling that there is a store that corresponds to her station in London.
And her grandmother knew that very well, even her mother, and that this incidentally explains why so many of yesterday's
These department stores are no longer with us. They are living in it.
They maintain a political class image, not in a market class image, but in a market image.
Much too long. And look, people shop, stop shopping there.
And the ones who make the transition were the ones who created a entirely different image of whom they appealed.
It's one of the very interesting things that happened to us in the beginning of 2014.
Fourty years ago, Chevrolet, Honda, Volkswagen,
and Cadillac were very, very slow.
The position, like by Chevrolet, again,
the successful ones who have either built a Cadillac,
we also built one, and a fast car,
we looked reliable, and so on.
We were very keen to stop the great deal of time
and we should be establishing an identity to teach your own knowledge of what is going on.
And doing it is to be young in heart, if you really mean to want to like to buy with more than some of the best that they should have.
And these are very good. Has that happened? It has happened.
Oh, they used to have a very deterministic class market, but very clear to my mother.
She was very unconventional. She shipped shopping very unconventionally.
She didn't know where to shop. She knew perfectly well where she was expected.
And her sister was a very conventional woman, actually would never dream of,
would never think of shopping any other way.
And this was still in this country years ago. It was never quite that.
But when it's very high, in certain, Bosnia, Minneapolis and San Francisco, very much higher than in, let's say, Chicago and Los Angeles and all over the world.
The more that you take, it's gone. And therefore, so we need to go to, not for the young, so we need to go to Tiffany's to buy something for mother and mother's day, and then we need to go to the bargain base when there's two guys and I'll go buy blue jeans for her daughter.
But then when it comes to the third part of the cross, what do you think it is really?
It is religious. I wouldn't have anything to do with the works of Goodman and many of the high fashion shops.
There's been a hell of a lot of those.
Those, not so much, but actually shop in the posh children's shop.
Because, only because she was 13 years old with the brass at age 11.
You can compare labels in that way.
And so, and how to find that out about yourself?
That's the basic assumption of expropriation.
To find that out that time.
For this, the only way, reading books, reading authors, doesn't fit you in.
For this, all you probably, what you have to do is stand behind the counter
in a German shop for three days, or have some, and you probably have to do it yourself, because if it has happened in Germany, no German would understand your question.
You can't put the German, he doesn't know what you're, even if you explain it to him, he won't see it. I'm exaggerating.
But you are not interested in statistics. You are interested in something far more important, namely, behavior.
And for this, the fellow who doesn't understand what you are trying to tell him won't see you.
So you may have to stand behind the shoes of your friends to talk and watch.
Whether you are German or not, it doesn't matter, because that's not important.
You see? But you have to read it.
Oh, maybe you read it. And then you read it. Then you have to look at it.
So one puts clear assumptions and one tests it.
And that is the... I have to say, one doesn't automatically eliminate a strategy
because one of the clear assumptions turns out to be wrong.
But if one doesn't eliminate it, one knows one is taking a risk.
one knows one is saying surely european society is moving in the same direction
that's a very plausible statement but it's not a certain one and it may not even be a highly
popular it's an expectation and you don't know and it might always say that it hasn't happened
And not just real. Or you may say, the young educated people, the dominant market. And you know, the funny thing is, why do you have in Europe, or not in Europe, but in many places, an expansion of education.
Very similar to the American ones, those guys were the distance.
Democracy is not dominant.
Democracy is dominated by something we don't have anymore.
By the young people who are in employment, but also in schools.
Because where you have the Germanic pattern, which is not only the German,
Germany, and Sweden, and Holland, but also France, and large in Europe.
You have the development of post-secondary, or rather upper high school, junior college type schools,
which are for people in apprenticeship, not release time.
In fact, your country, India, combined that country, which was developed and interested in by the first president,
first chairman of the Monarchy of India, which has been a strong, that enabled a lot of young people who do not really want to start another work.
And at the same time, education, which is the only great weakness of the system, is that it is so vocationally circumscribed that if you go into the track that says export business, you are forever disqualified from going into anything else.
but the expiry will be a mandatory program for you.
It will be unnecessary, if you then look at what the actual
important is to you, it's all the same thing.
You get transferred from one to the other, it's impossible.
That is a self-imposed, and this is a poor competitive shape
if you have a self-imposed ability.
It's a serious work, it's a serious work, but unnecessary.
And in education, that is the mistake we don't make, not so much. We are, we are conceptualists, we are very, we are very, and we don't. Now, they are not shown in the statistics that people in education, because they are mean, at least if you ask that young man, he is an apprentice clip, or an apprentice to make it, or what have you.
And then you find out that he spends 20 hours in the classroom, which is about as much as he spends in a gymnasium, or 18, I think 18 is the minimum, I don't know, evenings, afternoons, Saturdays, and so on.
But he does not see himself as a student, he sees himself as an adult and a member of the workforce, and he's seen as such.
And he has, of course, a lot more spending time, because while he isn't being paid enormous sums, he is paid an equivalent of 60 bucks a week, and he still lives at home, and school is free, or near free, and on top of that, he pays no taxes, which is traditionally not considered a subsidy, but a grant, tax-free.
So, the 60 bucks of the provolenta was the sister with the sonography. At 85, she actually did get dressed. So, he was a very well-heeled young man.
the remote device. At that age, one's girlfriend is still cheap and occasionally actually a source of support.
And so we lead a very good life by records, by films and so on.
When you see them, they have enough money for a very cheap picture.
You know, when they go to Portugal, they not only take the sausage and the bread with them,
but it is about the point that you don't have to go to Portugal, it's not a bad idea.
And so, but they don't spend the time, except for the Charter Airfare.
But they are, they are the real mountaineers, and not the young educated.
They are very cruel, but they don't think, because they see the reality very clearly.
So these are the kind of things not tested. And spend time on testing yourself.
It's time well spent. Don't say everybody knows. Don't say it must be so.
Don't go by what you read in the paper.
Just don't take for granted that with all the things, all the material, it must be so.
And don't start out with the assumption that what is rational to you is rationality.
Rationality is determined by the reality.
Rationality is that behavior which is appropriate to the reality.
And what is appropriate to your reality may be totally inappropriate in another place because of reality.
The German apprentice clerk's reality or the French university, or take the opposite, the French university student is not the privileged class, but an underprivileged. Because all good employments are closed. The good employments go to the people in the elite school or to the people who come up in the apprenticeship.
They don't go to the people who sit under their side for four years in a classroom with these Christians.
He will never make the top by and large.
He will not be hired.
There's a hard time finding a job.
Because French employers or the government, for instance,
they look to the Politico-Christianity, the graduates of the École des Colles,
the elite corps,
And then they look to the people with a solid trade apprenticeship, that kind of release time, vocational school background. Now those people of release time vocational group may become top managers. They won't ever get into top management or even the middle management.
But the other people in the French industry and the French government look for the larger government.
And then they look to the very small individuals, no more than 8,000 or 10,000 graduates,
for their future top people, whether it's government, or university,
or how this is not true, of course, in medicine, where you go to medicine school.
But in the liberal arts or in law, for example, the French universities, do they run a deaf institute?
No. And that's explaining to them that they are not deaf.
And they are not deaf. They also explain to us that 70% of them are women.
They are definitely deaf.
But if you are not deaf, you can never get into school at school.
At the time, you can come from many schools, even small schools.
But you can get into classroom teaching, elementary level, mid-engineering, unlike very different.
You can get into those security government jobs where you need executive assistant to the boss.
You're the ones to show whether you're supposed to know it.
I left alone to let on, which is one of the strengths of that job, actually, the capacity, the office wife, the brains behind the outfit, and the girl Friday who's willing to do everything from buying the present for the wedding anniversary, the toys for the Christmas, to paying off ex-mistresses, to licking stamps and the dressing envelope.
uh they are beginning to revolt but that's the reason the potential of the system will not change
until they revolt they haven't begun yet and uh so to look to the students in france as leaders
as students they really look at them in this country
They don't do anything wrong. They don't, socially, they don't honor the others.
They're anomalous in the family. And so one spends time on the living.
And the same thing is true of business. One doesn't say, this will never happen.
But one also doesn't say, this is only a technical problem, and therefore they'll be able to spoil it,
because out of him, that's not good enough for the business. In case that is wrong.
One goes out and looks, and maybe that's the kind of a problem which should be easy to solve, but for this, let me give you the best example.
Any damn food knows, will think, the highest, the most advanced petrochemical.
Anybody, can anybody finish the answer?
Not the best petrochemical around, organic, it's lignin.
You know what lignin is? Lignin is a whole species.
It is, the chemical composition has been known since the 1860s, the most advanced, most beautiful
chemical in the world.
The second sentence is, surely one can do something with it.
There's only a technical problem.
For more than 25 years, the best brain, but that itself is against the living brain,
and we have yet to let go of that stuff.
All you can do, you can, and speak your recourse, get it out of safety. You have to before you can cut it.
And then you can, since you're no longer allowed to discharge it into a riverbed, automatically kills everything.
The worst goes already. You can burn it. And it gives a little less term of value than it needs to burn.
If you are very good, you're very evil.
It's essentially not family.
Here you have to heat it to a tremendous temperature,
general char. It gives you almost no heat time.
But at least you get rid of the char.
It is the most wonderful.
Every time you say that you need to use the stove,
the paper, the machine, the boiler,
until we can try and scrape the time.
Yes, it's only a technical problem,
but nobody can even make even the slightest progress on it.
We are, in breaking the lignin ring,
then we put in the stuff to use.
Yeah, exactly, but exactly where the father of,
one of the fathers of modern organic chemistry,
I think it was, because that's the real problem.
Who first tried to break lignin,
and then we found this composition.
Yeah, just exactly what he wanted,
namely Milbrecht, this fantastic experience
of good people's work.
Though one doesn't see it as only a technical problem.
One goes and looks,
and maybe it's really a technical problem
that means that he put a few well-trained,
mis-technical people to work,
and they may not come up with the perfect solution,
get to go. And let me say one of the things one learns about technical solutions. Do you know the story of the invention of the automobile? Who invented it?
No, there already was a second one. Who was the first automobile that really ran on the street? Yes, the official answer and the unofficial one.
The official is Carl Bentz, and I thought it was George that named them simultaneously, and they didn't know much of each other in 1876 or what have you.
The problem was the rest of the time, and one was Italian.
The American story of technology has unfortunately exploded in high school.
A man named Marcus, who had no doubt that this all changed after that.
But Marcus, unlike Wembley and unlike Benton, were both mechanics. Marcus was a university student, and he had a transmission which all of us older people used in World War II. He designed the two, and he had to have one. That was a fact.
And he was, however, a well-trained engineer. So I took one look at that man's machine and said, that's a horror. That's this group. This unspeakably bad. Power loss, fabulous. And you have only those six gear ratios and you have nothing to do with it.
and you have you have to push it from one year to the other that will force that that's the group
there must be a better way so we put this car off the street
anybody know when the way was actually developed
The automatic transmission is the other invention of the man who, he tried to market it, but 40 years later, and one day, technical solutions need not be made.
elegant. They need to be added. The question is always, is it a significant improvement
and will it satisfy the minimum specifications? And then one doesn't say, does it satisfy
the aesthetic sense? Is it really? I mean, one assumes that the first step is a small
important one, but we say there are uncertainties. First, can one really justify the IBM of
which is that it takes a question of money for a computer.
But we deliver him a knock-down.
Do it yourself, kid.
You know what I mean.
Can one really put that he is not worth
on making the wrong thing funny?
I mean, come to think,
will the victim of a computer installation...
I'm a subscriber to the Monster Channel.
Four weeks ago I stopped coming.
And then I've been pointing out, the story always gets clear,
you know we shifted to a perfect computer.
Well, I'm not surprised.
I mean, I also know that I won't get the Monster Journal for another six months.
Or if I get it, I get the Monster Journal for all that I should be getting.
You know, somebody else.
But mine, I won't.
No. Can one really justify 30 years without working hard? Maybe not. But the first one, yes.
Then one says, what are the minimum specifications? Technical solutions are always said, what are the minimum specifications that will do the job, however proven, however invalid.
And it is not only unnecessary to say we want to have perfection. It is impossible.
We only need to find out what the true specs are in use.
You can't really learn swimming on dry land or skiing in the gym.
You want people to know how to put down skis.
And maybe you want them to know how to turn the round.
and then you want someone to slow down.
Those are the minimum specs.
They have to be able to put them on.
Otherwise, and they have to be able to turn around.
Not that difficult.
Learning times, I leave at night,
after a time you learn it fairly fast,
half the day.
So simply after that,
one can only do it one foot, one ski at a time.
Once you understand that principle,
the rest comes easy.
And after that, they belong and they slow down.
That's the minute. And you see Quint Marcus' transmission, which we speak, and you had, oh, he had a clutch.
It's not quite clear from the model. But he had a clutch of whether like 40 different.
You know, in the fourth modern day, it was essentially man against the elements.
But 50 million of them were driven. So, we did not fight people there. We fought the Indians. But that's a very simple thing.
But still, they did push the damn thing in. But they did not, so all these are very...
And that was, I'm sure, every single engineer who ever looked at it, one of them said,
this is a group, and it is great.
Well, where it took 40 years before, what's very simple.
They're not the owner.
As long as you have the principles of the traditional transmission,
The drive could not be solved. You had to change the drive. Then you could do it, but that's not happening.
So one does not just say, this is a technical matter, but one also doesn't say, this is not nice or elegant enough.
One says, will it do the minimum job? What are the minimum specs, will it satisfy?
and then one reduces strategies to guilty and then one can say now on what basis could we decide
and now I would like to ask you after we have our drinks and our dinner on what basis could we decide
what are the systematic what can you say to us let me see
and always start out with things not to do that's easy and let me give you a clue
The first thing not to do is to try to ride two horses in different directions.
The first temptation is, I'd like all three strategies, so I take a small part of each.
That's a real issue.
One can't ride the full part of a horse, can't ride the real part either.
One has to ride the horse, right?
So, just as one cannot marry the perfect woman, you know, the body of Serenius of Milo,
the head of, I don't know, Eva Gabor, the brains of Madame Curie.
No. You've got to decide between this and this and this, as they are.
No one has to decide between two properties with one certain obvious caveat.
There is no question. There is no reason.
Do not decide between right and wrong.
You decide to think, all right, let's try and move on from this.
But you have to, not only do you not like giving so much,
but you only end up not doing it.
Nobody knows what you're trying to do.
One cannot play simultaneously with the same coach, tennis, soccer and basketball.
Even if you are good at all three, you can't play them simultaneously at the same coach.
You have to play one after the other.
And so one can only follow one strategy or one gets hopelessly confused and only runs into one another.
And say, my God, what are you doing? Oh, I thought you were playing this game. No, you're playing that game.
That's the point. So one's got to accept the fact that one has to make a decision very mainly.
And that's the first don't. The first don't is don't try to say, I want a little bit of everything.
You have to make up your mind to one way. That's what our friends did in Georgia.
They did a little bit of European, but it was not American.
Both may have been, each may have been in the right strategy by itself.
Trying to do both at the same time only meant that nobody knew.
And we had a failure in Europe, and they said,
oh, it doesn't really matter, our main line is in the United States.
And you had a success in Europe, and you didn't support it because the resources were committed to the failure of the United States.
So you never got anything, and you never learned anything.
You never find out whether you were doing the right thing or the wrong thing, because you always have an enemy.
So the first don't is don't.
If you have one thing you can't do, come back, you better go.
Let's see whether there are any of you who can say about how we can do it.
It's rational. It's not your people that want to build the thing by themselves.
Do I get any more papers from those of you gentlemen who came in later?
Let's assume we have finally three or four strategies
available to us as equipment to happen.
Not to do anything,
turned out not to be available.
Sincere assumptions that would make this a rational
and effective course of action just don't work
for the demographic targets.
So we end up with applying our merchandising, distribution, fashion, small tech skills beyond
