none of us knows anything about either Montgomery Ward or too much about the
retail business. We could talk with complete freedom. And what did we try to do in
these four cases? Let me say we tried to do two things really simultaneously or in parallel.
We discussed very very broadly some fundamental approaches to decision-making
That may be the most important thing we did. We said, for instance, that it went very much against your grain that one doesn't start out in making decisions and analysis. Certainly if one deals with experience and in an ongoing situation.
Partly because you cannot possibly avoid a thing. There is no way of brainwashing so that they don't have opinions about a business or institution they have been living with and working in for 20 years. You can't just say have a blank mind. That means be a moron.
And if you are not a moron, you'll form opinions.
And they are also relevant.
Because one doesn't assume that just because people know something about a business, they are wrong.
It isn't necessarily true that they are right because they have experience with it.
They are more likely to say what they see.
Bias and not too loud and clear though.
to try to explain away people's suggestions as of course uh that will increase his position
that's the well yeah okay one does not one does not rule out an opinion just because it also
coincides with a man's self-interest or with his past of you what does he have to say not
why this incidentally most of the time part of the why is perfectly obvious and therefore harmless
and part of their why is totally beyond uh certainly easy analysis uh what does he have to
say so one one has to start with opinion because because anything in the world you can do to make
them not can't start with opinions because it is easy and because it enables you to understand
because you then have not necessarily enough but you have at least some different views of the same
reality and one never assumes wrong mind do they are but one does but even the optically you can
see something real you don't need misinterpret and one needs enough descent to understand
uh an issue they say and then we said what but let's make sure that one or has in any
decided the name of the option not that about under what condition decide not to the bible
and then we said all right now there's one now about evaluating these options and we said one
way is to start out with the kind of analysis you were raring to do all along maybe what is
our business you want it to be very very advanced uh yes but it's uh and that's one way and what
What are our strengths? That may not be the best way to take advantage of the wealth.
The right way might be to say, all right, let's take these opinions.
Each of them does express an assumption as to what our business is.
What is the underlying company?
And what does it assume about the world outside, the reality, and about our company?
In other words, what I try to get across to you is that one uses the material one can get,
And one can use their business in the case where we spent this once and they're all, they're all. And even the organization wants it. You know, this week somebody wants it. Any organization, we're going to say, we're going to say those who don't know what they want will do what we think we ought to be doing. And it's what we have all, they are right.
How many, maybe two?
Yes.
Just one question.
How much can one actually, how many different directions run with the same priority?
And the other one we observed is last, together by the Stockport.
Nobody else knew enough to.
They weren't bright enough.
They didn't know enough.
And they kept on doing what Stockport is doing all along.
And that's not good.
Incidentally not good.
But everybody is tired because the old man did not put up, I think he put up about eight months. And so he had to tell them that. So he didn't do it. All the people, they had a lot of good. And so all they did was bring in a comp from the only place they could get them.
say children you do what works it can't be totally wrong and at least all of you having grown up
is here understand it and you can win and they did ask the critical uh but uh maybe uh but then
they became the victim because that meant that they consigned themselves into the perpetual need
to where one does belatedly and less well what the leader does the one follows uh and essentially
then also says let him try it out first if it works for anything
uh and that way you can do all behind the same time as the case shows
there was and and we looked at maybe the most
say look you may have to there are situations in
the danger and realize that it is a very and that don't beginning commit to this
being essentially uh the tourniquet to stop the
believe but that then you have to uh you think you don't mix whenever they start said what did
the old man who was started rethink venice more than enough money probably to last him in any
style it didn't say it worked it no longer works and then said what did i set up and i don't think
he gave the answer to the answer uh here we have had standing option of the weekly how to make
since the day 1870, society and the economy changed quite a bit. But the same basic values
that came out of people from the outside didn't start out with our concept. They started out with
what's happening in the environment that apparently is big, very big. In our business,
the fact that the age composition of the population changes dramatically is of no interest
whatever. But in the retail business, that means your customer. And so they said what's happening
in society, in the economy, that creates an opportunity. Anybody potentially knows how one
usually finds the most at what are we and everybody else. And one finds what one is afraid of by
listening to what people have to say. This can never happen. This is the best indication of
that they're scared of. The Auschwitz is not the only one. The Auschwitz only has a long
enough neck to do it easily. The rest of us put our hands over the eyes. What, you know,
that's what they're really scared of. And then one says, well, all right, first, is
it happening? And it may turn out that they do see burglars under the bed, particularly
in these days, you know. There may be one. But also, one says, what would we have to
to convert this into an opportunity. How can we then design a business or a product that essentially
exploits what everybody sees? Here every retailer in the country in the late period about the fact
that customers no longer know value. They don't shop anymore where they should. Whenever you
anybody to see this. Watch out. And then you catch yourself seeing yourself hard.
What they meant is that the good Lord, the 11th law, says American customers shall shop in the
appropriate ring. And suddenly they stopped doing. They broke that. And then one says,
well, are they anyhow? And then one may be quite different. Sure, for the likes of us,
these are the wrong stores but they weren't designed for it's very much like saying that
the slope is really not the place where you you want uh paraplegics uh it's not designed for them
and first and so these are approaches to now the montgomery ward one is a non-strat imitation is
a non-strategy if only because you have no control you follow somebody else somebody else
runs your business and since that somebody else isn't being paid for running your business and
doesn't even know that that's what he's doing you cannot really depend on it in every single case
where you have said number two imitating it is ge that's only ge is not being paid to g management
doesn't even know what goes on or couldn't hear this uh and are not really running their business
that Westinghouse can get to the best of their abilities in GE, and therefore you depend not only on absentee management,
but on a management that is not of your business, and that is almost a danger, an imitation.
Somebody else controls, without being accountable, without responsibility, without being knowledgeable, and yet he determines.
Interesting thing is when you look at Westinghouse, the businesses in which GE is not such an elevator,
can't look over the shoulder and think what's big brother doing it's got to think and so we talked
about uh essentially approaches and this is not perhaps the way to sum up maybe the way to sum up
is to say what we really talked about is one lesson of the montgomery ward case is that if
you don't have can you can't work uh in fact imitation is we think we have no strategy
somebody else the importance of not of coming up with one clear sprint to follow more than
one strategy is not only but nobody has really enough we print the uranus uh but the market
the society also about this you now know which is a very thick and but that is not
an exclamation of one looks at so shake these payments up that it knows that
