The objectives are no longer meaningful, or do they require different means?
The penny story, the story of the objectives were perfectly meaningful.
The penny means had become inappropriate.
They no longer satisfied the objectives because the environment, the market, the customer had changed.
And essentially very little was needed.
But without it, any would by now probably no longer exist or look pretty sad.
Now we might have, and we should have, perhaps, spent a good deal of time on how one converts a strategy into a plan.
So let me say a few things about that.
In every one of our cases, we might come up with a strategy, but that by itself is an intellectual exercise.
And how does one convert it into a plan, and how does one then convert the plan into action?
Because you know, until there is action, there is nothing in action.
And management deals with action. And in fact, until there are results outside of specific costs.
And so the first thing to say is that, one exception to that, even a very large business can probably pursue only one major strategy at any one time.
so that one has to make a decision some of you wrote on the pharmaceutical company case remember
have you all read it uh incidentally those of you who wrote and guessed through the company
were guessed so wrong partly because you just don't know enough about the industry and why
should you but partly because you didn't really think through what these people were doing
And here you have, in one and the same industry, three completely different strategies, each very successful, but each pursued to the exclusion of every other.
Now this is rare. Businesses tend, like the rest of us, to sprinkle themselves, to do a good many things before.
oh let's try this or they are afraid of missing something and nobody don't think this risk
and you know time at all they are confused and then you accomplish now those three pharmaceutical
companies each have a very clear and totally different incidentally one things in terms of the
dynamics of pharmaceutical biochemical technology the fifth the other one things in terms of the
practice of medicine third one things in terms essentially of markets of industry and look for
those places where if you have one successful company you're going to get people because
you get there first everybody else we look at it as the big one especially the big ones we look at
and say, all right, we may have to break our back
and then what do we get, $20 million in sales?
Let's leave those, let those people have it.
This is the strategy of preempting small but strategic tollgate positions.
It's not an easy strategy to do.
It's a very successful.
So the first one, I call able, let me say between you and me.
And I'm surprised that follows that.
x for the years they pick one and only one every 10 or 15 and get in very early at a time when
nobody else is really willing to go in because of years try to get the leadership position
and if something else comes along the next five years they don't think they were busy now this
let me say is based on a concept they're nothing of it and i'm certainly would not apply but in
their field see a rhythm in which you get you get a major new bridge and then you get a fairly long
mutation and if you are ahead and establish yourself and also build a very strong organization
the very best people you're ahead period but you only go for those potentially very big ones you
only look at opportunity maximizing opportunity strategy which does not think that the risk you
run is not it's a risk of not picking the wrong one that's not much of it but of overestimating
the impact what you think is going to change the whole field of pharmacology is going to turn out
to be a minor addition that there would in itself the strategy to tell you the beginning at the
front end you pay for research and research is cheap if only because researchers aren't
friends if you see one doesn't throw money at development but that we see very good people
if you really mean with development that's also done for development
the good chemical engineer is really good knows how to develop how to start something truly new
new no nobody knows how to teach so that's one scratch and it's based on a view of the
technologies for saka married the hoffman united being as good swiss also he had very expensive
no swiss culture and when the vitamins came but he never managed chairman of the prince enough
times. The other one is Merck. And again, that strategy was directed in the head of U.S. Defense
Research, and there was all jokes. So they had nothing. And it was a nice little compound,
and Merck saw an agency, an agency which you think would imagine a man to be with,
and the old man was a whole lot in Bush, and said, use the chairman. This is a market-oriented,
a customer or you know they have a merck institute of therapeutic research with financial people in
public relations are very good with you but they don't expect anything to come out of there for
their practice for their business that's truly a pure research for distinguished me essentially
the idea was to create for the biochemical biomedical sciences and parallel to advance
so in other words you get there when you have stopped with and uh coffee uh uh and uh studies
and science develop and you will good be good significant difference to your customer not
that's why you systematically slap off the things that do not fit you either because tropical
medicine and you're not them or because they're not in the mainstream or because they are nice
improve essentially not there may be scientifically very from the point of view of that position
his need is not new science his need is to get an insulin that people diabetics can take for a
longer time without developing resistance to it not science that's formulation and that is a
significant difference this problem was the management of diabetics no solar has to stabilize
one then the fellow becomes resistant to this brand who develops uh uh side effects that is
significant the third one you guess right yeah somebody like i've found that someone look that
way opportunity small one has a poor tool all he has enough is an upholstered stack hammer and his
job is to drive in spikes one can do it it takes forever and and to design the hammer that then
drive in spikes is very easy. It's needed. A little more than, of course, there's hammering
with the ability to get into small and confined and awkward spaces you don't need in a sledge.
That you do in the open. Or the opposite. Or somebody's trying to put in upholstered
tacks with a sledge, which also probably can be done. That's what they're looking for. Where is
it available? They are doing. You don't have to wait for an advance in medicine. And largely,
and or because they don't know because they've done it it's uh everybody is used to and imagine
that it could then let's see what second come out with the position of math or in design so
it's path as you so these are totally different is a strap and each of these follows one and so
one should come to actually make a risk management of heat someone has to see what
really what's the hinge on which we go, what area of combat we might see a virtuoso of,
technically a virtuoso of military strategy in World War II who was not Eisenhower and
not Marshall, MacArthur. Very limited, within a very much narrower frame than I think. And
MacArthur always had two questions. The first question was, is there a beach we can land
on? You know, because if there's no beach, how do you get there? There's a beachhead.
The second one, does the beachhead also have a beach? In other words, you have to have
a narrow place where you can really deploy your strengths.
But then if you establish it, you have to go now.
These are the two questions first,
so that whether that's a new penny store,
that crusade, all right, where are we going to test it?
Here we have a new, the old penny concept for a new market,
and it's a very different looking.
Now we have to test it.
Wait, that's fairly easy.
Much harder.
It would be very difficult.
And then one has to see if we are successful.
Does it lead us any?
Or have you just had a little swag?
Three years ago, when I was a musician one day,
my very, very good come first friend said,
this is one of the nicest fabrics, it doesn't leave any.
You can repeat it, that's all you can do, believe me.
They're very nice little, and 57 seconds.
Then one can play them, reorchestrate them,
and play them over again, no matter how you orchestrate.
But they act, and that's natural.
Or have you just invented the idea of a penny store, as long as it's in Rosemont, Pennsylvania.
That's the only place.
Then we have to develop.
As long as you do what we have been doing in this world.
So whenever you see a plan, be nasty, and then ask and it's good enough.
But then you have to get the new penny store designed and built and run.
And everybody agrees that Joe Blow is the only man to do it, but we can't pull Joe off the job he's doing.
He's holding his finger in the back. We say, please find anybody with a finger in the back.
One whittles a piece of wood and puts it in there and gets him off.
The problem is that one can't have a finger without having the whole man.
The whole man is engaged in what is. That can't improve.
Nobody is ever holding a finger in the back. All you can hope is,
Sooner or later it'll go down. You still have, won't have become much bigger for nature, but if you're near the dike, you have to do something else. For five minutes you can have a finger in the dike. Ah, ten minutes. And so you will find that they bring about the new, to holding action, to finishing up something that we now know we shouldn't have done.
And that requires to say, Joe, they're right. They think Joe and Joe is not anything new on stream. And it's always different. And it always gets different. But Joe is doing something else. And so we say, and if Joe is a good man, he's already doing too many things. I've never seen a good man underemployed. That doesn't matter. So he's already doing sick things.
then you say because it is so good and so you can also take care of numbers but the only result is
that you simply deprive yourself of the benefit and number seven doesn't get done if it's worth
doing you see if you do not believe that anything worse that full-time don't anything that can be
done on but if it don't overstep it's just that the baby is capable capable of eating only very
few and you are not going to make that baby grow very fast a lot of steak down here uh
it needs a little at this thing uh so then you always not keep it needs so until you have
the worst thing you can do is believe you stopped it uh by assigning it to somebody
who's already good strong the only way you can get okay we come back they don't have to
