Because of it, every step you need on it, I treasure that and keep it.
Maybe I leave learning a name for it.
Now may I please repeat, because some of you weren't here,
that I have no deadline for paper, whatever you schedule.
I just turn it in to Lloyd Ingram, mail it to his back.
You might spend the last hour on your question or observation.
almost anything that of interest to you, let's draft this policy area, anything that...
Can you all hear Lou? No? You'd better stand up.
But I don't think it's a first one, I think, because others have started,
but it's a fairly radical one.
Well, I think we are in it.
We are in the kind of very definite flame, the Green Apple recession,
and I have a suspicion that the next few weeks may be very rough.
and suddenly things begin to go and get over the worst of it by the end of the year
i i would hope so depends on how many really weak spots there are which covers but the next six
weeks i keep my secrets fastened and they're vomiting bangles backwards to the question
well maybe but now you buy the seat belt something else in mind purely me too in the start of the
company. I don't know how far along we'll land. Look, here is Westinghouse. We have a GE fellow
here, don't we? We had one last week. You told us that Westinghouse has been following. No,
we had one of the top executives of GE here last week who was visiting here on campus and was in
here. And that we asked him, remember, how long Westinghouse has been following a Me Too strategy
and maybe he's a little biased but he said 75 years and maybe that's a little longer than it's
really true but it's a long time and some markets it works very well if you are a large public
utility you don't want to be dependent on one supplier and on the other hand you don't want
to buy stuff that's radically different so you are very happy with a second reliable supplier
Large enough so that you can expect him to be around when you need spare parts for your turbine
Who does not basically differ from your means in that situation that we say work
You don't want to be dependent on a single one and yet you buy fairly standardized
The number two one might might have an advantage. I can see a lot of development yet
he gets one out of every three orders the utility companies do not want to end
them and that can go on for a very long time
in so you may be in trouble very soon but if you start the business and you
model it on a different another one find it in the
same market
you know that's not really the question because neither you nor i are going to
make that decision i think the government is going to move
very fast maybe much much too panicky the pressures are there and something is fast certainly with the
congress newly elected congress the government trying to run in a number of directions at the
same time so we get off the economy as to our proper topic i think because all other all of
you can read los angeles times here the difference between inflation and deflation what difference
It's fairly simple. Inflation is an increase in the money supply relative to the available goods and services. Inflation is a decrease. So far it's simple. Historically and theoretically you can't have both.
But we are having a tremendous decrease in money supply in consumer disposable income and a very sharp increase in money supply. This means that you have what is traditionally considered things that cannot happen together.
strong deflationary, strong inflation. Economic policy doesn't work, just don't fit. The behavior
of the price of food exerts tremendous deflationary pressures on consumer income, and on the velocity,
and yet that exerts very strong inflation. So any economic policy is bound to have perverse
at the same time in order to fight. Now in the Western supply case, we dealt with the
distributor not really a manufacturer. How did it come about in this country that we
developed the exclusive distributorship in automobiles which let me see in Europe
for instance you don't have to this day and which in this country is not universal
for instance most of the imported cars are distributed through as much as so on.
I don't, well I wasn't around in the 20s I only looked there and so I can't tell you.
you ever had open i think we did out exclusively it's not even the desirable thing for the
manufacturer you see having control of a distributor is desirable i beg to differ
in the first place desirable for the very big company or anybody else it means that you don't
get to the market the basic problem of american motors is the exclusive dealership tradition of
the american automobile market uh which means that in the few places where american motors
is relatively west coast or the northeast and south be very strong in the rest of the country
american motors essentially has no dispute no matter how good its product american motors
would be much better off if we didn't have the same is true with the appliance and also if you
are a manufacturer do you really want it to always have the same kind of delusion that once that makes
uh retailers one private friend or maybe it is you don't because you can't have not having to
finance it without you become the prisoner of it we want i suggest to you very strongly that
these ideas of control and so on are the illusions of grandeur and one says how much does it cost
and one doesn't say i like because uh you then can issue orders or can see the right thing for
most without being our number two in the law a viable brand a brand they like but not the brand
and do we have anybody from the insurance industry anybody know how insurance is being sold in the
united states as against any other country towards the american system now this is the one and only
country insurance and i'm not talking like psychiatry is not sold by exclusive agents
who carry essentially carry a number of lines so they usually have one or two they stress
i'd say in fire they stress this company though they have also but they can write business with
any you really think we would have the open access to the insurance business we have without it in
europe where you have exclusive agents uh you have essentially a welcome to monopolies along with an
oligopoly nobody can get in but they can develop a new company you can't develop
new force if you actually look at the results they are much better for the
first underwrite first he doesn't have an area he can beef it up very easily
he has to sell himself to a general agent who don't work out as well as the
American system what does it have enough of a product line enough of question to sell
you unless you have very so we don't have but this idea that you have in any of if your brand
isn't good enough i'm going to get on the grocery shelves or stay there anyhow if you can't sell the
food for cancer the supermarket cancer the house but don't fall for the delusion don't let me see
it is the mark of a businessman that he is never willing to pay a penny for except to
politician the strength of somebody in a business is that he is not willing don't see what it is so
which most and you may have no choice because when we established that this american workers
made their major it had the chance which the foreign important must be at more than that
sometimes i was expressing going to with as the large comments they would have they might have
hundred and fifty thousand therefore and which they cannot get to the inventory of parties
but don't popular means we have to this is one question how much will you know more about this
than i do you are in the unique position of being you all know about what a monopoly is don't you
know what a monopsy is where you have a single buyer which economists think exists only in
economic theory and not in practice but the defense business the aerospace business you're a buyer and
essentially he behaves as a buyer the way seller from that point say on theoretically cannot make
any money he never has wouldn't know obviously yes but i wouldn't know i wouldn't know to what
extent they're actually a defense business there were the real new research was developed very
large yardage so i think the computer people had a lot to do no but i don't know yes sir and they
all do but they shouldn't pay for power all right capacity is where you know let me say that uh the
mistakes businessmen make is uh do you want prestige you want to be loved acclaimed power
the smart thing to say is does it add to the field we all know for the pocket but you know
pop says that when it begins an institution begins to go downhill when it builds itself
and while i don't think one can quantify enough of a style because they were by the way not just
the partisan development on the basis of the british we pointed out this empire began to
the day the colon magnate uh as up to then the colonial office when there was a career
You know the old definition of a statesman, don't you?
A statesman is a Republican who has just lost the election.
You know what a philosopher is at that stage.
So now, beware of businessmen who become businessmen.
They very soon turn out to be businessmen.
Machinics are businessmen. I don't think I'm competent in the first place.
I do know a lot of them. Not a lot.
which are known to everybody, which have a big national presence.
And you look at the containers, now this may not be a good Southern California example.
How many of you know of O.M. Scott?
O.M. Scott's reputation and the name is here, not very strong in Southern California,
if only because loans aren't very strong.
And yet half of you raised your hand, so you know about it.
Yet it's a small company. It had the name and it was a tiny company. And there are such companies which have leadership in a tiny market with a reputation which makes everybody believe they are about as big as perhaps not GM. But when you look at the reality, it's a very little layer of, it's not that desirable.
They are the other end. They are in Rome and Weichle and nobody has ever heard of them.
How many of you know of A.O. Smith?
GM. They make only categories.
They make the frame for every American.
They make four, put four steels together.
Uh, they haven't done it.
Nobody else. Japan has its own frame and maker.
But nobody else in the West makes the frames and lets it truck.
So they are 80% of us. They are very unglamorous.
Fucking four together.
Very large quantity.
public has never heard their name you never see their who maybe their name is on the underside
of the car but anybody lifted it up and there is a big anonymous there are some like and in
many ways they are always getting the cars that can't bear their anonymity we know how important
you are to the world we know no car could roll down anyhow we are no truck without our frame
and yet nobody has heard of it and if you go in and say i'm so-and-so for me or smith people
from who? And so they start diversity, glamorous, invariant. One doesn't, Frank has said about it,
the stereo company, understand, how many of you can really, now don't brag, all right, nobody, up with that,
beyond that, no, that is not that good, no, they are the reputation, how many of you can really tell
the difference between 150, now let me say, those things are values, but the value is the beholder,
the beholder what the customer the fact that the x y d stereo the one which all the real stereo
got anything else he said nobody you've got tennis so the fact that you can make it play through i
just decide no another one i have one part coming these are parts these are genuine value for the
Either because he feels that it identifies him as one of the inner elite, because it identifies him as one of the quality, or because he's exclusive. And this is what he pays for and he's willing to do it.
so don't say that this is not part of it's not part of technology the product is defined by the
community and the fact that any one of the words i don't know 20 or 30 noses you know what the nose
is in the perfume a minimum of four knows is the ability to identify blind how many can you
identify i can't identify five but that's a minute now any one of them could probably produce no
problem. In fact, without smelling it. These are kind of fighting. I mean, they sit down next to you and say,
do you remember your aunt? You say, yes. They say, what, how did your house smell like? You kind of
describe it. Four weeks later, you meet them at the same place. It actually happens. This neighbor and friend
treasure a scent, flavor. Very good, because not one of them starts out. And then he came in and said,
Hans told me you'd be at the dinner. So I thought I'd just bring in the scent that you described your grandmother's house or aunt's house smelling like.
Didn't it smell like that? No, no, these were kind of old meat and floor polish.
So my mother was the refined one. We were the rough ones. Their governess didn't allow it in the house.
house. It smells like Santa. So, you know, and anyone, probably everybody has. But that's
put in by the actual, the bottle itself. Don't see that there's lots of cuts. There are
vestiges. So don't see that. But how can one deliberately go out to the advertising
agency signing out either? But don't, you know. Now look, wait a minute. Charity for
an electrician that Mr. Norris himself did not suffer from the desire to be recognized.
But Mr. Norris probably did.
But let me say, what people will do out of vanity, you cannot imagine.
I know a man, head of a very big company, otherwise sane human being, rational, brilliant man.
Whenever he took a trip, he tamed it, so that about three minutes after he was supposed to,
to the doors of whatever hotel he stayed in, he observed his patient's death.
Say, well, how old was I?
Very distant.
Yes, but that child is vanity.
All you can say is that at least that television, it doesn't fit.
I don't think anybody ever buys a drone now.
If so, it doesn't work.
Look, I'm no expert on ego trips.
One never knows, but I love it.
Many, many years ago, this is a GE story, so you don't listen to it.
Many years ago, my friends at GE were in an absolute...
They had come public of the Native American house,
and what came out was a very comfortable, really dedicated to designing,
scientific, but they didn't see him as warm and loving and neighborly and friendly.
My friends at top management at GE were in a good relationship with Arnott,
