appearance of which will cause everything if your company goes out of business tomorrow that's sad
news for you and for your employees and maybe for the city of alphalina which loses the taxpayer
but you know somebody's wife says at the breakfast table our toaster is on the blink
and the husband says what go buy one and she says what good brands are there the fellow says
says, oh gee, I think it's all right.
She goes down to the hardware store, the discount store,
and they say, you know, gee, went out of business yesterday.
She isn't going to go back home and start toasting bread
over the fireplace.
She's going to see what other good brand do you have.
No, and that is what is so hard to think,
except the fact that the public doesn't want to.
Oh, with curiosity. If you have some spicy gossip, unfortunately there's, you know, the real problem with management is that it's one of the few subjects in which sex is almost impossible.
The greatest of the astronomers about talk. So, if you have some spicy sex, oh, they make grown-ups. I mean, somebody, somebody's got to make grown-ups.
They don't make themselves, you know, but thank God I don't have them, you know what I can say.
I have no idea how important they've become, so...
For some items where people have a very hard time judging, they perform a function.
How many of us in this room can judge for themselves the performance, let's say, of a refrigerator?
A toaster, that's fairly easy, you know.
The darn thing either pops or it doesn't, or it burns or it doesn't, but a refrigerator's hard.
And I think with products where people have a hard time judging, consumer magazines have a very good impact.
In others, I don't respect them.
More, let me say, it is very easy to lose customers and pleasant experiences and people talk about it.
People do not talk about good experiences because they think you do not remember the products that work.
But you do remember that dishwasher you bought where you couldn't get service for two years
until finally a serviceman came and looked at it and said,
why hasn't anybody cut that string that ties down the impeller bay?
It took him two years.
But you remember, I remember that one.
Why didn't I see it in another course?
But you remember people do. People take performance for granted. In our economy, we are spoiled.
Most things work, reasonably work, and therefore the bad experience sticks in your memory.
It's ours. And this is something very few businesses understand.
On the other hand, that refrigerator you had trouble with and you would have poured up
and they would have sent a truck over with a new refrigerator and put it in and take the old one out,
you would remember them. Very few people realize that to fix a real trouble spot is very important
because they call, they stick in the memory. Good experiences, people take for granted.
And I think that's essentially a tribute to the performance of the system.
So don't complain about it. Don't complain about the fact that you don't get brownie points for good behavior.
This is one of the big questions to which, let me say that the only thing we know about advertising was said a hundred years ago by John Wanamaker, who said, I know that 50 cents of every dollar I spend on advertising are wasted, but I don't know which 50.
And that is still true, except that maybe some people suspect occasionally it's 70 cents. Advertising is valuable. If you know what you are trying, the great problem with most advertising is that the advertiser has no objective.
There are several possible objectives. One is, let me say, the one most people say, very rarely,
keep developing advertising does not affect the advertising willingness to still have to sell.
But because advertising is part of marketing, you can only justify it if it results in a substantial lowering of your marketing costs.
And it can do that only by essentially creating receptivity, willingness to buy. So that the customer doesn't have to be sold, the customer has to be delivered, to be supplied. How do you measure that? That's very difficult.
Now there are some things, but very few, where you can actually look upon advertising as a selling tool.
Very therefore your question is, what is an adequate result?
We know most of it. In fact, the only figures we have are for mail advertising.
Even coupon advertising is already very difficult.
But in mail advertising, we know that you actually try to sell directly.
The range of returns or for success for various product categories.
what you is a magazine and that's successful above percent figures are fake
then he's not talking of net returning he's talking of gross returning forgets
to tell you that 50% of the people who write in don't pay their bills to go
that so anything about 6% essentially that may happen once in a blue moon but
most of them. For other products we have similar, fairly reliable figures. There you have a
direct feedback. You know how many you mailed out. Though these days you don't know how
many we have received, necessarily. And you know how many come back with money or with
an order. In any other form of advertising you have no such pure guess. But you can only
sell it, sell it, other than market. Sell discrete single products which direct with low, fairly low
value and direct consumer appeal, a magazine, anything market receptivity. Now that's one of
that product for which we spoke. We know that the things through. Secondly, who is your target?
Any advertiser in the old life meant that he was advertising to the housewife. The target of life
advertising was and life knew it and that slogan advertised in life was aimed at the retailer uh
this the massive the retailer knew how expensive life was how many households it reached these
good days and if it was advertised in life he featured it prominently on his shelves that more
likely and that was what you tried to do and if you understood this then life could be a very
effective advertising media. And if you thought you were talking to the housewife, you might
assume that your life never worked. And it wasn't meant to, but it had tremendous impact
on the critical brand, the national, these goods, or the retail. And this wasn't for
the moment, but even there it was, but for everything else. And the Woman's Magazine,
for some obscure reason, never had the slightest impact. Therefore, the idea most advertising
advertising agencies had to put the same ad into the light to put ladies' home com-
but they're so- one of the two was wasted. Only one of them.
The same ad, incidentally, we also know enough to date to know that one should never run this.
The gal who reads Woman's Home Companion and then half an hour later, Playboy,
is the same physically, but not the same emotionally or even perceptually.
And the message has to be, or it won't be, and most advertisers don't.
You save a little money having the same place, but you lose all of it.
And so one says, what medium is the right one for what kind of an appeal?
You like to talk to the lady's home companion, the housewife.
Retail has no impact.
Then we know that you make the one thing where we know the most,
not enough but the most is product or service marketing promotion uh where you want to create
recognition you may want to with me create where you may want to sell actually but that's limited
they're very narrow or create receptivity to buy and where you can think through audience
not for my ad for an ad in this medium when you go beyond it things become much fuzzier
corporate advertising images largely suffers from the fact that the advertiser is talking about
things that are of interest to him and have no interest whereas in product advertising you can
assume what it is help wanted that there you have a complete identity somebody is looking for a good
secretary and somebody wants a job very effective and you need to reach only one don't forget that
How many readers of the Los Angeles Times do you want to reach? One. The one who wants a secretary.
So you can have a very high impact, very specific message directed at people who are looking for a legal secretary,
15 years experience running a law office in western Los Angeles.
And you either match or you don't.
When your product is already much bigger, distribution but no direct impact, but even there you achieve an identity of interest. Here it's that housewife wondering what should she give her aunt Polly for Christmas, and something hits her.
Or she would be wondering about, what am I going to cook a Saturday night?
When you come to corporate, essentially, you're up against the fact that the reader couldn't care less.
He's not a bit interested in whether your company is a good service, whether you're lovable people,
whether you make doorknobs or snuff boxes.
Frankly, if he's an investor, he also isn't interested in how much they're going to share.
Whether you're making snack boxes, doorknobs, or caskets, that's of various more interest.
Caskets are reasonably depression-proof.
And they have a very great price list.
So, but he is nothing.
Then whom are you talking?
You see, corporate advertising is directed, if you know what you're talking about.
Just as life advertising was ostensibly addressed to the housewife and the addressee was it.
If you know that, and if you think through what is it the employees want to know, they are interested in Norris.
And maybe from the point of view of Mr. Norris, this is a very easy way of, nobody has ever heard of it,
of making his people, his management people, primarily feel they are working for an important company.
What it was, whatever he spends, I don't know.
If he knows what he's doing, if he wants us in the greater Los Angeles area to recognize Norris Industries,
is wasting his money, or others' share of that money. Now you remember Norris. So what?
I don't quite see it. I don't see whether there is a need to...
I'm curious why they...
Why do you pay the president of GM half a million dollars, do you know?
Well, let me say you don't pay the president of GM half a million or three-quarters of a million.
You pay the foreman of GM 12,000, or 15, and you have to pay the next level
deliver a significant differential. And since the darn thing is so grossly over-structured
that you have 22 layers, in fact, you know perfectly well you don't pay him 750,000,
but you pay Uncle Sam half a million tax deductible. This arithmetic becomes very complicated.
You pay Mr. whatever the chairman of Mr. Gerstenberg 750,000, of which Uncle Sam takes 600,000
day or thereabouts. No, he's at the 50% top rate, but now we're in income. So, but then
in turn you recoup half of that in the corporation income tax. So, very complicated. From the
point of view of the company, you know, you pay Mr. Gershberg $750,000, Uncle Sam pays
$370,000. But then you turn around and he gives you $375,000 back to Uncle Stavash,
very large. But the only reason why he paid that is not because of me, no, because anybody else who, but because you have to pay the executive vice president more than the senior vice president, more than the group vice president, more than vice president first class, down to vice president entering grade.
And that's where the pyramid begins.
GM is grotesquely over-stripped.
The management position around age 25 at the earliest,
if it's really a real position, you should stay only 3 to 5
years and you should still be, then you ask
with that ladder, at what age do you become
eligible to be president? It turns out to be 185.
That is simply a much too layered organization, very poor in that sense.
But that's the only reason.
And in many ways it would make more sense to pay those super salaries in play money,
because they are pure recognition, they are pure, they are not money anymore.
It's only because of tax.
So that explains those huge salaries.
isn't that there's a market back to what extent you should tie executive compensation at the top
to corporate performance uh to a large extent there's a lot to be said for it there are caveats
one is don't do things just because they save tax do them because they make business sense and then
some of the things that make business sense you can't do because our tax laws are so insane that
you can't do it then don't do it but don't do things just because taxes because they corrupt
and secondly uh in an inflationary period realize that things that made sense in a non-inflationary
period become dangerous price chrysler is going to pay for the fact that in last year two years ago
when there was a wage and price freeze in the economy it paid those incredible bonuses
top people, under an existing league, they were perfectly legal, they were just politically
asking. When everybody knew that the first time the wind changes, Chrysler was going
to be in trouble. Chrysler is basically not acceptable. GM could put Chrysler out of business
in about 30 days. GM is holding a very huge, fat umbrella over Chrysler. Look at the American
Motors, which is a Milwaukee plant that is now 100 years old, and was, even when it was
phase built around 1885, an inefficient plan.
Chrysler has at best
the labor efficiency of GM.
And it has not
barely survived. Then we had some very good years
and they did quite well. High leverage cannot stand any problem.
When everybody knew that the first time they stand
Then there are stock options which in effect make sense when you have a marginal company.
You want to keep your executive salaries but too low, so they didn't do hard.
And want to harvest still to reward people for the one year out of five where you do well.
So that they can compete for it.
And at the same time you want to build an incentive to do something about their basics.
But then inflation is mad.
Chrysler, anybody at Chrysler knew that Chrysler would need cooperation from the union.
Look at the compensation, ecologically.
Does it make sense in inflation?
If it doesn't make sense, then simply say,
all right, under the rule, we can pay these amounts,
but we put them into an escrow.
But if Chrysler can survive,
the Chrysler we need for the status of so-and-so,
it's the only thing we can do under the tax law.
Well, then let's do it.
Find some other way.
Or let's pay a little more.
If designed with one situation in mind, now we have a different one.
Does it still make sense or does it either distort or become socially or politically irresponsible, as says Chrysler?
Incredible, Chrysler born in the 70s.
Now they were not incredibly in view of Chrysler.
They were just incredibly in view of the fact that there was a wage and salary freeze,
and that he was totally unintendedly loophole.
say nobody had sold those option contracts had been written 10 years earlier five years earlier
and when we put in the wage freeze nobody thought of a bonus card and then the company doesn't
when he says no we have a legal obligation until sam wasn't right enough to suspend it but we still
aren't going to proceed as if nothing had happened what how do we play now so that on the one hand
We satisfy an obligation we have, and on the other hand, we do not do too much harm.
I don't know what Maslow's hierarchy of satisfaction is. There are two things wrong with it.
The first one you may not find too important, though it is,
namely that Maslow stipulated a succession of hierarchies of values as being absolute in human nature,
because that seems to him to have absolutely no evidence.
There's no evidence that, all right, first you have to get enough to eat the culture, and we have plenty.
