Huh? I missed that.
What did you say?
Breaking down a gay pub in the city at the right time.
That's it. That was the end of the interview.
A very subdued group, a very subdued group last week.
And, oh, you haven't been in it.
Young men, young men.
I have to stop dating none of you, including myself,
or sitting at a bank and so on, and we called and what have you.
A couple of shoe companies came to make shoes for the American market, but that's not going to be the point.
Yes, sir?
In the discussions we had...
Well, it's not talking.
Yes, we have a totally different situation.
Anybody know what is the outstanding characteristic of what our friends call democracy?
What does the economist call that, you know?
Monopsomy.
Monopsomy. One customer. The opposite of monopoly.
Anybody know the rules pertaining to monopsomy?
The supplier will always be the same.
It's got no place to go.
And at the same time, the public will always feel that the supplier is exploiting them.
The Tesla store is a very important store.
Mr. McNamara, when he became Secretary of Defense, created a think tank called the Logistics Management Institute.
Some of you may have heard of it, which was supposed to bring the way around logistics of the assignments.
It was to study the profits of defense investors.
This study was made and it showed that those companies that are entirely in the defense and space market
So, very poor profits on, you know, sales compared to companies that are only partially, like GE, which is 80% non-defense and 20% defense, and even poorer compared to those that are not defense-informed.
in this study they wanted to investigate the only market list, which is how the capital market views defense companies.
Anybody know capital market list has shown the slightest interest in companies whose primary defense is 90-50.
Then the price-earnings ratio has been reduced.
uh one half of that has improved which is a pretty good idea of what the capital market means
of the profits of defense uh that was forbidden by the controller general uh that's part of the
the facilities are built by Sam and Lisa, they have to return on capital.
So our return on capital is very high.
Return on savings is very low.
And with the valuation of the pensions by the capital market is even lower,
regardless of whether the pensions exist or not.
And that was the election.
Does anybody know how we run our defense portfolio?
There's some basic assumptions.
Why not make it more fundamental?
Before 1941, how did we buy defense?
What was the American approach to defense portfolio?
What?
Cost plus percentage.
No.
What?
No.
No.
Until 1939, this was.
Except for the wartime emergency, defense production is a government monopoly.
We have government naval yards which built all our ships except the actual wartime, through 1941.
We had government ordinance factories which built all our rifles and all our, not ammunition, and all our naval guns until 1939. Except the war time. Basically this is totally different from Europe.
And this country was laid down very early that we think is not a business, but a sovereign governmental country.
There are far more socialists, never been a thing, never anything like a crook or an Armstrong.
In wartime, then, private industries were demobilized on the assumption that the most non-defense industry is an adaptation of ordinary civilian industries, vested in the Civil War, which was prior to World War II, a fleet of deterrents.
Oh, Carnegie, just beginning to talk about that.
They were mobilized on a cost-cut basis for a temporary increase
upon the cessation of hostilities.
And if they ask for regulation, they are based on the assumption
that defense production is a temporary increase.
They're not going to have ordinary civilian productive facilities
ship it over from producing the same goods for civilian consumption to producing the same goods
for military consumption. World War I, 97 percent of the goods produced in dollars were goods that
you have normal civilian goods. I don't know whether you realize that that's true of fact
in California ammunition. Anybody know what the main use of dynamite is? Is it in military or not?
Mining, construction, normally 80%.
Though ammunition is just putting the same or slightly modified chemicals into different containers.
Do you know how much we produce?
Do you know how much we produce?
bc3 anybody know the largest order military purposes you had less than a hundred or one
for military purposes you had less than a hundred of almost anything
now you're talking about there was those
Do you have anything produced over time?
Look, I took over from the Westgate, Long Island,
in the name of the United States government,
just almost exactly two, twenty, thirty-three years ago,
on February 8th.
Did you hear that story?
Sure.
And I was told by my boss,
a fellow assistant that I have on,
to get the blueprints for the White House.
Get the blueprints.
They looked at me and said,
I was supposed to get 8,000 out in the first year, how many I got out in the first year?
But he hadn't got the opportunity.
And so when he did the group which happened, he did a list of
Montariello. Hopeless, they were finally
recon-changed and said, who's buying? Who is the buying?
The Lord has ordered us to buy. The buying is Joe the
Foreman. And he said, how do you do the buying? And he said, well
there is a wooden model on Mr. Drummond's desk,
nicely whittled out of good solid ash, and when we get an order, I'd take to Long Island.
In those days, it still ran. And you know that hardware store in Sedava, you can hear
it dancing? I did. And I'd go there, and I'd buy it. And I said, well, if they don't
have that rivet, I'll buy the rivet to have it stocked.
You know, one of the things I told you, my general members used to use the aircraft,
all the assembly lines they were using on the East Coast, they used to go and use the aircraft,
originally it was a fellow by the name of Dick Gold, one of the best production.
And we looked at this, to get through, it would have taken four to six months,
and we didn't have the time.
at the brainwave, the bootleg one from the Navy, we actually stole one, and put the pieces
together with part of it and put it into the main wall of the assembly plant in New Jersey
or doing contact, and each foreman, the best foreman from all over the GM system, each
foreman got a piece and was told to go in there and copy whatever it was, and the first
and it had a very peculiar kind of thing running across it.
That's what it was.
The leading inspector said, well, that won't fly.
So we called in Joe, the foreman, and said,
and Joe said, that was not the piece.
He told me to go to the goddamn thing, pick up my piece,
and drop it on the ground.
And the book, in front of us, went over.
But after that, we went to Cleveland.
What was the draft of the book?
$1,000.
$1,000 and $6,000.
So, you are living in a post in a very different world
where nobody has ever seen before.
There is a state government building, thank God.
And, you know, what you had,
and also 97% of the war material
with which World War I was born, was produced in any country, in ordinary civilian facilities,
no different from any civilian, a bayonet is slightly different from a kitchen knife,
but not very. A uniform, how different is a uniform from this, except it's made more
make more people have nothing there were the only things that were difficult a large fighting
battle anybody knows anybody know let me say the first vessel that was built as a fighting vessel
since the rome was the gustavus which on its maiden that sank in stockport harbor and can
can now be seen in the museum, 50, 60, 54.
But actually, the idea, most even
directed upon the report, you had a flagship
that was in suffragette during the Convergent Mission.
And not until the ,, which
is the great breakthrough of early 20th century,
was the basic fighting to be built
for that purpose, the submarine and so on.
That's late 19th century.
An aircraft carrier has no civilians,
but before that, it was a large,
before the middle of the 19th century,
the troop transports were converted
into military operations and so on.
And naval, heavy naval vessels, heavy naval guns,
they had no civilians.
They had to come out of town,
so that almost every country,
The naval power had special boundaries.
Boston was in England.
They were oppressed in France.
The first American naval foundry was in Charleston.
They had nothing that big existed in the Civil War economy.
And that was about that and naval veterans.
We were about to own the same naval veterans as that,
which required special facilities
that were not ordinary civilian manufactured,
converted for the emergency.
And that was still through the idea of World War I, very long, not entirely.
But tanks were produced out of multi-tank,
and the like airplane of World War I was produced essentially out of multi-tank force,
Now, without, what we can do, was only after, today, 70% of the money is spent on
the civilian facilities, but not for the service, for the arms, nuclear warheads and other
And that is fundamental change to which neither our legislatures nor our laws nor our procurement system has yet to be completed.
If I sound biased, I am. I worked for 20 years, came to the Secretary of Defense to tune their personnel.
But you see, after the World War II, 90% of the military jobs were civilian jobs that lower paid.
I don't want the world really to get shut down, whatever a settler is doing.
Anybody know what a sattva is doing? It takes care of the gear that goes on the horse.
A sattva was any different from the fellow who provided or looked after the saddle and the reins and what have you.
For an ordinary horse, it just got less money and it was on a military discipline.
Otherwise, the great wealth of military jobs, the civilian jobs,
You don't know a civilian equivalent to what the fellow does in the silo up in North Dakota, the missile man silo, I don't.
So, one of the most difficult things is to saddle that with the separate and permanent military establishment, which I considered first, but I don't know the way out.
But the idea, particularly in this country, was to keep a tiny little part of both the people and the production focused on the same set of supplies.
High ammunition, naval guns, naval ordnance, ships, and that's it.
And in wartime, he then mobilized civilian facilities.
He was very successful in doing that.
The basic technology of warfare, the technology of civilian life,
for the first time, I don't know how long,
was one of the basic political problems,
because it was out of control.
And the rapid initiative, civilian production, without income, how rapidly an automotive plant or a truck plant became a tax plant, how rapidly even a civilian, even an automobile plant, so this gives you the need for what you never had before, the policy.
But our basic loan, our basic veteran, our basic approach is that it's temporary and when peace in Poland comes, we can go back. But the American tradition is that those things, they cannot be provided to other countries.
The government also is the only country which has an awesome opposition, or rather which did not give up the awesome opposition in the 19th century.
Every other country did. Defense production up to the beginning of World War II was government.
There are still remnants around. There's naval, the Florian Reserve in the hills. There's still a naval shipyard there.
Newport, Newport, Newport News?
But you always fell back on private interest in wartime,
and they mobilized it on a cost-cut basis, and what have you,
and that was short-term, two to five years, and nobody would continue.
the country has yet to be informed about the situation in which defense production is not just a slight variation of civility.
All our rules say nobody in this room could produce a goddamn thing for the country's defense without breaking at least half a dozen rules.
So, don't you know, the only amazing thing is that we produce anything which is $5 a year,
which I credit most of them, improvised in the first month of the Civil War, and not changed.
But you have one custom, and it would not be in the social interest for you to have more than one thing.
We don't really...
What?
No, and the very strict government control. Marcel Lasso would be encouraged, trying to sell Mirage to Israel. Maybe he can sell them and take the money, but he can't deliver them. Okay.
So, let me say monopsony is something that you find in economics, the situation of the single buyer.
Nobody ever expected to see it in reality, but it is the fact that it is the fact.
And the monopsony problems are very peculiar, because a monopsonist does not want to depend on a single supplier,
But on the other hand, cannot really afford unlimited access
because they don't respond to people keeping them alive.
So the question which the American independent establishment
has all this stuff on political television is completely unacceptable.
The question is how many, the F-3 manufacturers, what is the price?
We pay this price, if you haven't noticed,
by encouraging overruns and buying-ins at a very cheap price.
Of course, I think we get the lowest price in defense production,
as was our politically unfortunate in defense of the practice.
You know, I once testified before the House of Commons
and told you that overruns and buying-ins are exceedingly cheap compared to annual returns.
It didn't make much sense, but it's not true.
You know, you look at what the French are doing, enough choice alive, there is no competition.
And Mr. McNamara was an Indian. He had the pride. He can't have it with him now.
This is an account before he came out, but nothing was new.
Very good friend. And he's silly.
And mind you, it's one of the greatest disasters that we've ever experienced.
Because it didn't face up to the issues of fear of,
it is an emergency, this is not freedom, this is competition.
You want to keep alive a minimum number of producers in any given area.
Maybe three or five, you've got a greater problem.
And what price are you willing to pay? Do you want to do it in the present American system, which is that you put the price for keeping the United States in the contract, everybody including yourself, or do you want to do it in French, Japanese, in which you guarantee each of the approved contracts, because there are many home income.
And the only choice you have, the second one, is to marry the Senate of the United States in Vatican.
That logic was accepted by the Secretaries of Defense at that time. They had a lot of interest to obscure the issue.
The last one who tried to get out of Europe was Forrest Thorne, who was the Vice-Minister of the House of Representatives.
From there on, the Secretaries of Defense learned the lesson.
If you want the Generals to love you, you better not tell anybody what you're doing.
They have it.
It is wrong to say that you cannot depend on the Satyaya,
partly because of the destruction, and partly because he's going to go to sleep.
If you want to see the light, the way he do it is by rotating the contracts.
The real thing is the contracts are awarded on their merit, years up to a point.
In other words, the marketing bid is much too high, they won't give it.
But if the bid is in the ballpark and they haven't had a contract to develop this capacity in three years,
they're going to get the contract. So we want to keep it in need.
In the middle, at what everybody knows is 50% below possible cost,
because that's the only way Congress will swallow it.
by the way that there is a 780% overhead and the great outcry that's all there is to it.
If you accept the fact that you can prove to a congressman, I will regretfully come to you and tell you that maybe you can.
I've applied for years to do it and never got the answer.
Maybe, I believe one can tell the truth to the American public, but Congress knew nothing about it yet.
And so, I don't know. I'm very worried about it.
I think we have only got now 30 to bring. Nobody ever sat down.
It proves that we are far, in any country, the armament of the street national, far, far more efficient.
Because we still have people out there trying to do a job of breaking the net, but still it's one option. It's an option.
And we have to make up our mind. We can block heat not because we have 20,000 employees in Southern California.
It's just the only way to do it. But because, rightly or wrongly, we are coming down the drain.
and five, but five, five people, four everybody, because you might have business in this one.
You may have an effect to energy manufacturers, electricity, if one goes down the drain,
it's right, right, the aircraft can be the truck time of the country,
to at least light time for us, light and medium, which is very great, and so on.
So how many do you need and how much are you willing to pay for these?
How you doing? You doing what?
An elaborate aim of contractor boards in North America.
Anybody here from North America?
You want contractor boards in North America for the job.
They have legal capacity to build them.
I think the price of building boards is going to, I can assure you,
this overrun will have, some of us will see,
going to be the most amazing one. There was nothing else. They got it. And they were kind of
successively, aircraft officers, airport officers sat on them till they had scales that went down
to where it looked right, because there was a limit patch for this boat, without spare parts.
It's also an insane specification. It's, you know, the front of the horse is riding
is riding to Los Angeles every year for some kind of deal.
That kind of a thing.
All right.
But that's another matter.
The matter of essentially the question is,
how much does an office have to pay
to keep enough sources of supply and demand?
That is basically the thing.
This is a different industry.
It's now an autonomous plant facility.
changing ourselves. Look, you look at a management book and it tells you, A, that there is a right to organization structure, and B, that there are two basic principles of organization, the functional consequences of organization.
And you look at reality, and there ain't no right organization structure. There are only monstrosities of various kinds. In addition to the two organizations, the management group, there are these three teams that simulate the decentralization in which parts of the businesses, all businesses are being set up.
because there's a system structure,
not just an international structure.
So we are in a period of great flux in organizations.
And maybe the one thing to learn is that there is no one
right principle, no one principle that's
had this life, no one specific thing.
And we now know what the specifications are
for .
And secondly, that there is no cure.
Well, all organizations we know that work are ministers of several principles, and that the test of an organization is not whether it's pure or not, but whether it's good.
And twice in the fairly short history of organizations have we had the right answer in 1920s and 30s.
And in 1920, which became gospel aftermath, but Fayol's functions, manufacturing, marketing, research, accounting, personnel, and Alfred Kingstone, and where you can organize a business on the basis of those two sticks with them, they are far more satisfactory.
humans, far easier, far less problematic. But increasingly fewer, more and more of them have to be additional, and there's a risk of shock.
There are quite a few organizations we don't know how to organize. We really don't know. We don't really know how to organize a large commercial bank.
We don't know. We don't know how to organize the government. We really don't know.
We improvise from one unsatisfaction to another. So in many ways, organization is in flux.
That's the only thing. One is there ain't no purpose.
And secondly, don't reorganize unless you have to.
The last few years we have come to the habit of it.
The chief engineer and the marketing man spit at each other what they should do.
God help you if the chief engineer and the marketing man are in agreement.
They should see a reality.
But they fight each other.
So you hire a consultant to reorganize.
Over that does our organization highlight the right problems and bring out the right conflicts.
Or does it highlight trivia?
say here is your research man and he says you're in the business of making
tools for for the medical profession and here is a research man and he says that
he has a new instrument to investigate the inside of the liver
his quality specifications and the marketing man comes in and says my
specifications that it mustn't cost more than 29 cents. And the research man says
you have no sense for quality, which is nonsense. To make something complicated
for 29 cents is a high sense of quality. It is only an after-research man's sense of quality.
And they should fight. Because if they fight, you have a chance to get it out for $27.99.
If they don't fight, come out at 85 million bucks and only the federal government can buy it.
And what the research man means by quality is something terribly hard to make and terribly expensive, and that's incompetence.
What the marketing man means by quality is something on which, on a 29 cent gadget, you make a profit of eight dollars.
That's also not, perhaps, quite right, but you want them to.
So if your organization structure brings out the construct,
but it brings out who has the corner on this,
then you have the wrong thing.
It gets focused on trivia, on things that are not constructed.
We'll live that organization.
We don't know the answer to that question.
