And they're all autonomous, and each of them is an axis of integration of organization.
And for Christ's sake, don't build a company as difficult as a human body,
because it took a couple of million years to build it.
Secondly, we aren't quite as good as products in learning,
but except the fact that you need at least three axes,
and you really need a portion of which you don't know how to organize.
We need one axis that is focused on political authority, because in the first place, you've got to know where to go for a decision. You've got to know, and you've got to know where the buck stops, and you've got to know there comes a time when the bull session ends and somebody's got to say, children, this is it.
I have no idea whether it's right or wrong, but this is it.
Oh, you are there like, you know, the millipede, in the green field, you know that story?
It's being asked by the flight, tell the millipede, which leg do you move first?
It's been sitting there ever since, trying to figure it out.
But you've got, somebody's got to say, I have no idea whether it's right.
For all I know, it's damn wrong, but this is it.
And no more collapse. And every organization, being in the barrel, and when the ship goes down,
notice the captain on the bridge issues the wrong command, you still have a chance.
But if you then call a mass meeting and vote, some in a common barrel situation has the
the unity of command, and no questions asked, and you have to know in advance who is the power.
So you need the authority axis, but it is not the axis you use every day.
And there is an information axis, and I would strongly urge everybody in this room to look at this also.
who in this organization are in front of me, in what, and in turn they have to say,
and from whom do I need to walk in front of my door, and for Christ's sake,
don't even tell me what to do, and you will find that 99.9% of them are not in the authority
with whom do I have to work with them. Some of them may be subordinate, some of them may be superior, and others may be totally outside of the authority and all things.
And then there is the least understood one, the decision-makers.
Let me say we have today, in our principles of organization design,
two organization designs focused on work.
That is the functional organization, in which only engineers are in the engineering department,
and the team, in which you bring people together for an assignment.
That's on workforce.
I wonder if federal decentralization, the GM type, and simulated decentralization in which you set up the way IBM is organized, where manufacturing and engineering is a company with a profit and loss statement, and distribution and service, selling and services, and other ones, even though the prices are clearly low accounting fixed, transfer price, that's simulated.
We have one relations-focused organization, and I can only implore you to stay away from us if you can,
that the system structure of which NASA was the best example, all the large Japanese, all the micro-nationals,
in which everybody in the management group spent all his time to inform himself and others,
and nobody ever gets any work done.
That's for management, but in forms.
We have no structure that is focused on the decision one.
We don't know how to organize around
whoever sign one of these people.
That's at least how I would decide.
Really want us to develop one,
but they don't know how we do it.
But we'll be theoretically responsible.
So we have actually multi-actual, multi-axial systems, and all I can tell you is that organizations are becoming confident and becoming more like biological organs, like mechanical organs, and people probably more than you would want to know about. Anybody got the question? Yes, sir.
If you were to take the companies at satisfactory return of resources, what percentage of them would you grade as doing an acceptable job on, well, setting objectives?
Well, wait a minute. I refuse to answer the question, although people did not terminate me, but because it would make me sound even more arrogant than I really am.
I don't test it, but we see a good example.
It doesn't depend on what he has in person.
He says, what can a person do?
And all right, he's got some venerability,
but can he at least build on his strength?
So I don't know a company that does everything right.
As long as I know what to do with it,
except for putting it in a textbook.
But in reality, there is this.
And your company, I think if you guys, if anybody is from here, there's no company I know that spends more money on personal management and knows less about managing. You know what I'm saying?
It doesn't matter. They are the nicest, the most decent people. They are really, really nice.
They proceed just in the face of it. What they do is, you know, they jump out of the skin.
Why? It doesn't really matter. They do a few things for you.
So, I don't know if they do that. I know companies do.
I go through this and that, because I've got an old friend of the world's greatest pianist.
One man that married one day.
Though his wife has been running a public festival for years.
But I would ask her.
And on the piano, even though she's not allowed to do piano skills, she's much better.
But it is when it comes to being sure that there is nobody around.
They are also committed to the, how did Arthur Schnauble say,
herb, fruit, sugar, variable sugar.
And I'm very fond of him when I was, oh, how to bring him sugar.
Or even how to buy an empty.
But damn it, when it comes to paying, so, what can he do?
And so we have his company, and it is fabulous and good, and so lovely.
So I'm trying to learn from him, so lovely.
I'm not at his company, and it is fabulous to do one product at a time.
It's a great thing that they really know how to do it.
And nobody in the world comes close to them.
I know, and the fact that they're not mismanaging the point.
They're not managing them at all. They're managing procedures.
That doesn't bother them.
And the question is, is their strength very massive?
No, nothing is less useful than to have a concert pianist who is really frustrated, bad at teaching.
Anybody willing to pay for a demonstration?
No. So, strengths, where it matters.
And so I look at companies that survive.
Let me say that's amazing enough because I'm an old concert pianist.
There's an old saying among internists that no old internist ever had a patient where he can explain how come the patient is still alive.
That's a sign of an experienced internist.
They're all surviving despite themselves and above all despite the doctor.
And so let me say as an old consortium, I can tell you that I've never had a client where after six months I could still figure out how come they are still in business, except that I then have to remind myself of the wonderful thing that we call a miracle, that is the fact that we can reach this point.
We don't know who wrote it, but all we have is Ricardo's draft, three languages.
It says, dear sir, you do not understand the first thing about this.
Prophets are not being made by differential intelligence, but by differential skills.
Respectfully yours.
That one has to remind oneself of.
I only know prophets, but there are prophets who can then build on that org and that country.
It is really irrelevant. I know some companies that try to conserve some totally irrelevant resources.
That's like being proud of being able to take the minute more than fifty-seven seconds.
Nobody's willing to pay you for that. Nobody's willing to pay you for taking the minute more than fifty seconds.
So, it was playing. So, and it really implemented it in a key area.
In an area that's crucial to your success.
Okay, you'd like to be known also, you'd like to be loved by children, by cats, by dogs.
It's not terribly important, but that rest is concerned.
But are you really good in the P.S.?
I'm not very good in P.S.,
but we are damn good in P.S.
For every old internist,
that fellow with the tendency
to circulatory and cardiac problems,
all right, you can tell him to stay off better,
not to eat too much food,
to get his cholesterol down,
to eat up,
but that's not the point.
The point is to develop his basics,
One of these days he'll have it, or the tactic will be gone, but at least he'll enjoy it.
The circle of knowledge is this. He was born that way, and 16 seconds after he was born was the last time he could have changed it by killing it.
But after that it was too late. He was born that way.
But at least we will let him use what he has.
And here is another process, no gas-fitting. No CO and low blood pressure.
No CO and no gas-fitting.
No CO and no gas-fitting.
We can enable him to not to feel him, to not to feel him, to make the most out of his low blood pressure
and his good circulation and his good veins and all those and his strong bones
and live a long and productive life.
They're rid of that tendency, but at least, but if you find somebody who's got both high blood pressure and the tendency towards degenerative rheumatoid aspect, then you've got to serve either a meal ticket or a stop at the end of the doc, but you know, both are certain.
I won't take them. I take only the ones, all right, but one but not the other, yes.
I'm worried about the unattainable one, as I'm worried about the one you have attained.
That's a real thing.
Look, one of the basic problems of the school students is that they have attained their objective.
For empty thousand years, the students have been screaming about getting a few more of the kids into school
and keeping them there a little longer.
And up to very recently, he had a very small fraction of the kids in school and kept them there a few weeks.
And now they all sit there on their answers because they are ready for retirement.
And the school teacher is still screaming about you instead of saying,
he said, Papa, God bless you. We want more. Let's make sure the right ones drop out and not the wrong ones.
So, one has to say, first, one looks at an object, only gold, I'm not going to talk, and say, first, does it still make sense?
It's not worth trying. And it may not make sense either because you have attained it, or because attaining it is no longer the first one.
In this day and age, to have 80% of the global market was not particularly desirable.
For the time when that was a voice of the people.
But today it doesn't matter. Why?
And one asks, is it the right of people?
Is it a need?
And if it is a need, will it actually impact the output?
So it is very relevant. That's far more important.
The only thing is the objective.
The objective is so far.
It looks terribly important, but so far.
A lot of our governments are perfectly attainable,
but there is no one.
One asks, what are the results really?
That's why one wags down and sees what we expect.
Here is that new product, new service, and we went into it because we expected it to revolutionize the industry, but all it turned out to be is a minor addition to the product line.
It's very pleasant to have, but all these words hurt the history.
And so that's the question of .
And if so, .
And one of the most difficult things is to get across to a research director
that that wonderful progress he's making towards a new broad spectrum of .
Unfortunately, that doesn't signify it.
And in the meantime, competitors that come out with three gold answers, which have much higher performance, are the one issue.
You know what I mean? All right, you're making wonderful progress towards something that's terribly difficult, but it doesn't matter anymore.
When you finish that product, you may get the patent on it, but you won't get any scenes on it.
And when you started five years ago, this was not only terribly deficient, but terribly revolutionary. Very multiple. He'll then go in and find fictitious advantages, but it comes in a red pill.
It has to be very cold-nosed and say what does it do for the customer.
During the last five years, about 40 central nervous system drugs have come out,
of which one has been a success.
All other 39 have lived up to their objective of the research.
But it's better. You don't, I mean, the patient can take it without the convergence, without experiencing severe depression, severe nausea, and the sharp drop in blood pressure, danger of shock.
Whether it does anything for the psychotic condition is not yet proven.
I'd say it's pretty good against the country, but against the city.
All the others here, and like physicians, contrary to the present propaganda campaign,
do not really like to have patients die in their offices.
And they're not going to converse with you.
You have to be rushed to the hospital and put into a hard-line machine.
They don't really like them.
All the others are good drugs.
This one, probably no better than from the original one.
But it is quite bad.
And they're not so good.
And I understand why they're not so good.
Years ago, if you sold it to them,
you can get the kind of drug
you now have .
Which we now want to control.
Not that difficult. They're simple. And the straitjacket.
I mean, you're talking to the medical director of the company.
He says, I don't understand why the doctor, stuff like that.
All they need for it is a straitjacket.
How many of you would return to the hospital?
That's what happens to me. And there is no cure. No amount of intelligence can prevent it.
You're just a little less lucky. These people who are just a little less lucky than you,
and sit upon a molecular configuration, nobody knows what causes the condition,
and the target, that doesn't cause it. That doesn't cause it.
Maybe it isn't quite the difference, I'm willing to take a little less effective view
of that kind of side effect.
You have attained your objective and it wasn't worthwhile.
Here you have suspended the laws of gravity to bring the traditional sense into all its conversion.
But nobody really likes it.
more than a tremendous achievement, and we have attained our objective, and it turned out that it was the world's finest character.
Okay, we are almost at the end of this particular learning. I don't know if the next one will break.
And in this module, at least a change of pace, as they say.
Look, challenge Paul to talk about the knowledge of it.
The knowledge of it is so good.
I've never heard anything.
I heard Paul on this a year ago, and I do.
The Bank of America seminar, the man is so modest
that unless he challenges you, he causes you to don't.
He won't bring it up.
He'll talk about it.
Even the knowledge of it, the science of it,
the challenging of it, the knowledge of it.
But for Christ's sake, don't betray me.
Any papers that are yet to come, hand them either to Lloyd or to Richard, but don't put them into my office and for Christ's sake, don't entrust them to that non-existent organization.
Okay, thank you and enjoy.
Development of the old type, don't give me that rascal.
Parents, you know, they're out of over the threshold of the school.
It's out of your mind.
We want children to read by the time they're 50 years old.
By what if they read?
But if you read the development of every person's personality,
you could measure it too.
and he would forget what he was reading and writing and everything, and he would go to the other nonsense.
And he would have love at his words.
That's very difficult.
They would have co-operative love for fellow students, well adjusted,
willing to give her and mom everything they could do.
They only kept their mind.
But children and the child, they needed to be provided with also with the other things.
See, one thing I'd like to say, one thing, see, how far it consumes us, how much we
raise and what we don't, we have got to make up your mind, you see, we are going to measure
how far we can do, not really want to find out how much we raise and what we do, we want
to give you one percent, but we don't need all of it, all of it we have to give.
But there's no way, if you want to do it, you're running out of time, you can't do it, you're not able to do it because, not because you were in a pandemic, but because you were in a pandemic.
We adopted a time facility in every office in the country.
We did it once in the country.
I mean, there's 200 different places that can do that too.
It's still good, I get to listen to it.
It's very basic, very nervous, and only your own experience.
And then whichever thing you do has already been done,
and then there's the back doors, you know?
That's a nice one.
You know, for example, if a person wants to write in English, that's fine.
So, you read what people want to write in English.
But if there is something wrong with the language, the other language,
then you can do that with the other language.
If you are pretty good at English, like 11, you know,
you can do that with the other language.
You can do that with the other language.
The definition of objective, as Dr. Rastafari said, is that our reality.
The medical man is immune to such things as the definition of health, the definition of very good, the definition of absent-mindedness from work.
Well, it's true that the fake advantage is not that it's bad.
You know what it means? Whereas my definition of country is just general.
In terms of my definition of country, I feel that the concept of country might be slightly different.
But the notion is just general definition.
I don't know if you can hear me, but I don't know if you can hear me.
