the only thing that i think that my god now wait a minute second division is just coming in
that's ours i don't know yeah wait to start on the way for refreshments
i am peter this is the first meeting of the first module of the executive management program
1974-5. The next seven meetings will be here. After that we'll be back again at the Board of Fellows.
But from now to the 19th, on Tuesdays only, we'll be here. Thursdays are down with us.
And this is a module on business policy. Now all of you I imagine got the course description
and the cases of it. Will you please look at them between now and next Tuesday?
I'm just writing down if I may the name of this building, I didn't know it either.
Edwards Hall of the Liberal Center. It doesn't mean that you can ask anybody around you where it is
because nobody knows. But at least when you get here, you know you're in the right place.
And about one-third, I would guess, of this group are veterans and soldiers, and you've got something like that.
And I will not break them with things that we did together, though I think there's such a lot of arguments, even very good people that we need.
And in part, we have some of the views I...
By the way, will you please...
You cannot hear me enough.
I imagine it was a very interesting word.
That's one of the most annoying things.
So if you can't hear me, say louder.
Raise your hand.
Well, good.
But if there's the slightest problem, business case, non-business, public service,
it's very difficult.
So these are business cases.
These are all out of my own simplified script of all the relevancies.
And we will build on the case that I start.
and uh we will devote them that means incidentally anybody who has anybody who wants the business but
the first session you're going to devote to and i'm not a good idea this year it is in many ways
not none of us even the very old ability and if you ask me what is the most it is what i call
mean apple you know a little bit a lot of free and it's this and this in danger the boys have died
But if he survives, then later he will be a very violent kind of, getting rid of a lot of power, and turn anybody into their life.
By the way, one thing we know about Green Apple, the less it does to give him medication to prevent his getting ill, make sure that's it, but don't give him medication.
So, in a Green Apple, there may be why there is also a real depression.
government intervention in such a situation does not seem to be very likely to provoke a real thing.
Then there is the probability that we keep on in this present state of turbulence for a long time.
Highly possible.
If you ask me probabilities, I would say not one of them has a probability of 50,
and not one of them has a probability of less than that.
That's why they add up the numbers.
And so don't expect such a thing.
The first thing to say is that we are in a very peculiar situation, very much aware of
inflation worldwide.
I don't know how many of you realize that inflation of home capacity, it is therefore
the less jobs, the less like us.
We have allowed to understand that American wars was coming.
The same was true.
But I don't know how many of you realize that we are also, since in the years about 700,
happened and from the supply of gold and suddenly a highly monetized, non-monetized.
You had almost a millennium of Europe.
And you might look upon not the nomads, highly successful enough to revive, destroy,
Now, we are very much like IT, top management, and let me tell you how much it is in Bangladesh, the business, the family. So, the oil price is sucking out, purchasing power out of the pocket of their very, very, very, they are the most oil is the source of energy, they have no other, we have no other.
One reason why they have no other is that all of them, as you know, are highly capital intensive.
And where is that money going to go?
There's only one place it can go, in long-term investment in the...
You see, legally that's going to be short-term money, but don't be befuddled by the law.
The law is an act.
There is no way, have no way, to have the loan for the dating.
And the mechanism is that whenever you saw an economy fall, they consume a bale without, either by rushing to buy colored rubber, rushing to buy motorbikes or bicycles.
And that is not the only development. But also we conflict with the preachers. The gods are just in the northern part of Brazil, and in Africa, and South-East.
It's going to be to finance our energy, in which case you will see a long boom, very different, in the rich, but with a very real...
uh but don't stop so this is a racial manager you see the first thing i would tell you
is to make sure that you know where you stand and i would say most of you haven't when i read
company announced profit against those businesses i know and i do and not one of my clients has made
that many of them all announced when i said this if you first adopt the old rules that in inventory
your risk balance by inventory loss the same for the rate by google so that in either case
the inventory is of the surplus so i bet you don't understand it and nobody has ever been
the accountant or intelligent they accept us we have to determine it is all flicked between the
account which is an inventory so for you for the inventory in a candy the use is not and yet the
basic account so reserved you are not allowed to not and the other thing is one knows to what the
roads and it's a not a viewing place we see whatever the accountant the purpose here it is
in effect a part of all you know that you will need and if you look at it that then you are
that building you know that i'm on the estimate united states we are in there but you know it
Yes, it's still adjusted. It's still, let's say, in terms of, uh, what I don't, let's say, it doesn't end up in the market. And your unicorn has not done that. And one knows this. And make sure you know. Number two, accept the fact that we have moved from an economy in which profitability is the final yardstick of a business to one in which cash is managed for liquidity in preference.
What I'm saying is that when a storm hits, you know, when a hurricane hits, it's over in six hours.
The sun comes up, and it's usually beautiful.
It doesn't do you much good if you're capsized.
And it is essential.
It is apparent in the kind of leakage that is not going to be caught.
The interest rate of well-known animals is just below the rate that we think,
which means that and our interest rates are out 12 is balanced and that means that it's a negative
interest rate there is not no risk and yet how many businesses can earn percent so the interest
rate is too low and higher that means and also you do know that any such is i wouldn't that would
affect that certainly and i hope all of you know do we have any commercial bank advantage all right
you don't listen you know that when the banker tells you you have a three dollar credit plan
you know what eternity bank 90 but the commercial banker will tell you once in 90 days don't uh and
so and in which this breaks off so now they may turn sure they can but they were very but the
treasurer would have been very reluctant and if one doesn't and maybe because one of the
lines to the way I need so as not to get up. You see, you look at and let me say one never said
words remembers that old frog you had remembered if there would be no consumers. And one looks at
the stock market and says what are these secrets those of you who have read business we just
statement. Then the present Dow it was. It's equal to a Dow of 900. In other words,
profits that are monetary. But then you look partly because of what party in which your
ability to earn your profit because so if you period when you make fun this is very typical
for the end of an inflation the best example the german one because what's it with is that the
great profit doing well made by me by coming over here and uh every year 15 increase during the
The entire inflation period, after the inflation, it had the largest electric manufacturing after the American civilization was managed.
And it broke off in delusions. You are a prophet of the inflationary years.
And everybody said they're old and starchy and tired.
They've had it. And where are they? Go, go, go.
And they broke out. And they bought the stimulus.
They were a very nice business until about 40.
And that's not going up.
And they said they had control.
They said, no, but we're in a telecommunications business, radio, sending.
Manage.
The stock market doesn't pay you for it.
It doesn't look.
You'll report a sharp drop in earnings and then there's a sharp gain in earnings.
Don't say the market is irrational, very irrational.
Nobody knows.
And what it's telling you is cash and you will.
And that's the next elementary thing.
which the accounting model does not fit because it isn't meant to be designed to see any model
is a limited model and the important thing to know are what are the limitations what can it not
the accounting model is and it isn't designed that the first purpose is still to prevent anybody from
the first model is the custodian. The second purpose is to find the things for every, and
either can get it out. That is largely a problem of metaphysics. I'm not joking. I'm like this
is to decide the job about a dozen equally important. And information is the left, that
And it is not but up for weight because of our gifts, and that is only a notion, it serves the tax collector, it serves the bank, but it is not an economic model, and you cannot make it one.
Now, you can add things to have economic dimensions, of course they have, a great even point, for which you need figures that come out of the accounting stream, but you treat them in a way no self-respecting accountants would treat them.
And so the figures you read, the information you manage with, is not because there's anything wrong with it,
but because you're simply saying that you expect the grammar of the Japanese language to give you a table of real algorithms.
But it's not in. That's not what you expect the grammar of the Japanese language to contain.
