So you have to get your economic data. Because you as a manager know your needs. And you need three things that you don't have to do. You all have to do with productivity. And those of you over here, you all know my song and dance, I don't think you suffocate for hearing me begin, especially if that's suspect, but not one of you has done anything about it.
When you hear productivity, I know all of you immediately said productivity of labor, and that is a lesson to be learned.
The most important productivity is always the productivity of capital.
The ability of a business, of an industry, and of a country to grow depends on its ability to improve or at least not to downgrade the productivity of capital.
capital and i am only telling you something which is new and which is at the heart of
hallmark's prediction of the imminent demise of capitalism because he predicted that the law of
diminishing returns makes that impossible and the reason why that prediction didn't come true
is that he was wrong and that productivity of capital for 100 years has steadily been going up
not because the textile industry necessarily has been utilizing capital more productively,
but because we have put strong capital from the textile industry and put it into the steel industry,
the electric industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the innovation,
all of which started with much higher productivities of capital.
It is a shift of capital from areas of low productivity to usually low areas of high productivity
productivity. That essentially gave us the dynamism of increased productivity of capital.
And the last few years, let me say, is also the one absolute advantage of a market economy
over advantage. Productivity is the marginal utility of capital in the communist countries,
especially in the Saturday countries. It's so intriguing that we have an economist in
the number that's been published in the Philippines here,
they range from about one eighth of ours in East Germany
to one twentieth in Bulgaria.
You need to invest 20 times as much money in Bulgaria
to get the capacity for one pair of shoes
or one pair of shoes.
And Soviet Russia is in the middle of this.
Not quite as bad as Bulgaria,
but considerably below East Germany,
an old tradition after all. It's about the Soviet Union is roughly, needs roughly 12 times as much investment
for a variety of reasons, which are not engineering reasons. Infrastructure, so much gets wasted.
The delays in construction are so incredible, I don't know whether you know, but since the first five years
There was no year when 60% of the units in the construction were not written off as two-party curators who stand there for years waiting for a room.
Well, by the time you get finally the allocation, there isn't much left.
And don't say there was Russia.
Our war economy.
for example, Ingrid Bellingham, unbelievable party,
and then decided we weren't going to put the party in Heron,
trying to manage from the top down.
Don't know what goes on, because it's too late.
Those ports look very nice from an aerial surface.
You can't get anything straight with a rip-off.
The sense of planning is not good.
So, the city of capital in the last few years
in this country has gone down.
What I'm saying is that every business in this room is increasing its receivables,
financing your customers, and everybody is financing also its suppliers.
But you see, somehow this doesn't make any sense, but that's the way it goes.
I have yet to see a business which doesn't think that it's got to pay its suppliers faster,
but its customers pay it more slowly.
Now, some places, this must be a revolving thing, this must even out that it does.
Your own steel-holding inventory is quite clear-signed,
and your own inventory is for your own inventory.
You bought three years' supply of steel pipes,
but you don't have the joints to put them together,
because that fellow has been on strike for,
uh, so your inventory is like a balance sheet,
uh, and you carry it at 80% interest,
and yet you would tell me we have no choice.
Either we take it when it's offered or get it suddenly.
No bell rings.
Learn to manage the productivity of capital.
It's also incidentally the extensibility,
but profit is not the center.
Increase the profit margin depends very much
on what the competition is.
To increase the turnover of capital is doing it.
The standard of financial management adapted.
Well, that's the wrong way to say it.
You have none.
Nobody is with managing money in the business.
Your financial, the bank will how well you are.
It doesn't know you or make sure where the things will get sent to you.
When one runs one's credit, you run it for minimum credit.
When there's all that stuff, it will.
Mind you, the bank much more than it used to, but not nearly as much as it was.
And no longer zero cost.
It's still reasonably cheap for the bank.
For you, it's darn expensive.
And so one says, what does business say?
One looks at one's customers, and you may be certainly surprised to find
They're probably the ones to whom you extend the most credit.
It makes very little sense.
And one learns to manage the key.
Everybody and everybody you.
The key is building.
Maybe it's copper here.
But if you are retail sales.
And if it's sales.
There is no second woman.
There is an almost invariant relationship.
between the number of corns a given sage, now the good sage makes twice as many
sales but four times. But the ratio is invariant. Now it's not a straight line to
double his time and make 1.8 times. One of the few complete 1.8 times. Just to give you the volume, two and a half times, roughly.
So, but the one way to get the most of all the employees and whatever sales man up fits most sales managers is not the sales manager that manages an office. The sales manager is either your star sales manager in the territory, by example, or it's the manager of the sales team that employs. It's the market manager in the territory.
show them potential customers. Those are these people. Write that anyone that fits this man best, but don't doubt to get better.
So, productivity or more machine time in a heavy construction. What is that? Then make sure you get productivity.
In an inflationary time like this, one needs to get dollars and billions. A lot of figures by themselves are very decent.
so make sure you get that information we are in a severe productivity uh productivity is going
going up anything it's not even and you will have to learn to man government can't do that
and fiddle with the monetary policy which whether it is effective or not we are in one of those very
peculiar periods and it's having proven the ineffective of a remedy in wrs and uh it's
one of those uh their strong says ah but one thing government cannot manage the new government
government they assume that you'll manage for it well you're right for managed itself now it has
then they look at preparation meaning here is your seats here's the plan here are you yourself
humanity you want to have to look at productivity quite different some we can't manage your
productivity thank God but you are closer than we are so they are not within his
model but they are within his thing but you have to ask any shop down to the
dangerous any show is a signal for analysis what are we doing here we
sudden, I've been able to improve. You know, I've had 1.6 times a year when the rest of
you can only do it. And we never have done better than that. What have we done? Let's
not lose it. So watch it because it is your best thing. You are driving an automobile
by the gas gate without a road map. And one needs it. That's what it helps you. But you
also need the road map. And you need this to dominate. And so get it. And now I think
we have to walk over because as all of you know, you're one well man.
