The one thing we knew at the end of World War II is if ever there is recovery in Japan or in France,
let alone if these countries recover economic dynamics, let me say that outside of the United
States we have 25 years of zero growth in population and economy. In this country you had
some considerable growth in the 20s, but not in the 50s, so zero growth is nothing new, and for those of us who survived that period, it is also not something necessarily we are very eager to go back to,
It was not a singularly good period, but I don't think anybody in 1947 had the crazy idea that Western Europe or Japan could ever recover economic value.
But anybody who even hoped for a recovery, one thing we were all in agreement about was that if such a thing happened, and very few of us believed it could, very few, almost nobody,
Then the French would develop a demand schedule and appetite totally different from the one of the U.S.
So would the Japanese. We didn't know what it could be or what it would be.
Ten years old. It was the early sixties, you know, this was still.
When it didn't happen, when it turned out that they developed very much the same demand schedule.
People talk about Americanization of the world, which is not.
It's simply that these are very much the same values.
They came, values, and it's evident that they're economically rational.
When you look at them, what they were in the last 25 years,
as values are not material world.
Corn is a materialist world, you understand.
But a universal value is a little mobility.
power and a little mobility which is what two wheels or four wheels give you which nobody's
ever had before and it turns out it's a very expensive affair it's still on the region
so that three out of every five children born lived to adulthood whereas historically three
out of five died before the 60s and little access to the world for you let me see the radio and
the tv aren't a thing this is a very arrogant people up in the andes or to the people deep
in nigeria or to the people in a spanish and andalusian village they are nothing they are
their first access to the world the access to the world let me see for mankind historically
has been a group of soldiers coming in looting and raping that's been access to the world the
the only access open to everybody. Now suddenly you have a different one. And so the impact is very great and very important.
Those are the values. And finally, a little small lecture. And those are the reasons for that here in Lima.
They're lipstick. They're learned economists. You know, one of the few things you can see about economists as a group
He said, none of them have to worry where the next needy will be coming from. That's the only thing they have all in common.
And so, they tend to see the world the way people with a full belly see the world. That's the minority.
And not necessarily irrational. That shop here in Lima, who just a few years ago moved down from Zinca Village in the Altiplano,
and she lives in a shack made out of cardboard boxes and oil drums, knows damn well that she can never
hope to live in the kind of a house she sees in the illustrated papers. And she knows she can never have the education,
she knows perfectly well she is intellectually qualified for it. And she knows that if she is very lucky,
But very lucky. Two years hence, a boy will marry her equally ignorant, equally cruel, equally hopeless,
who out of sheer desperation will begin to beat her up within two years.
Men may be romantic, women can't afford to be, you know.
But at least this Saturday afternoon, she can look like the human being she wants.
more valuable to her in that lipstick than in that goddamn steam will the economy inspire
build up in Shimbukha. And she is also a better economist because that lipstick creates far more
jobs and far more managerial competence and far more entrepreneurship than that steam which
creates nothing. And so the small luxuries which enable poor people all over the world to see
themselves for a minute rise above the restraints of economic necessity which have enslaved the
human race forever. Don't underestimate them. They are not material facts. They're built to be.
Whether it's a Coca-Cola bottle, which says, pay on down, they are not perfectly well,
he can't afford, and he knows perfectly well that he could also bring water from the tap.
though he also probably knows that there's typhoid in it. But still, he knows that because he needs to cope with it.
That makes it difficult. He can't afford something he doesn't need. He is free for a second from economic restraint.
Economists don't understand that. That's their great distinction. It's not their thing. It's their vision.
Those have been the common priorities. They are not enough yet.
But this wasn't seen. The Gauls still talked of the Coca-Cola-ization of Europe.
When all that happened, they said the two Frenchmen realized that it is not necessary to die of alcoholism before age 35,
and water is still not very safe to drink in most of France.
So the choice between wine and Coca-Cola, despite everything consumer reports, is drink Coca-Cola.
Khrushchev, when he was here in 64, said we will never have those wasteful cars. We'll have taxi cabs. Taxi cabs are good transportation, but those of you who have a 17-year-old, what are the limits for driver's license in California? 60 years. Huh? 60 years. A 16-year-old don't know perfectly well that transportation isn't the reason why she can't wait to get her driver's license. It's power and freedom.
And so you have for the first time a common world economy, and precisely because the satisfactions are not material, but fundamental human beings, that's the stuff all the great myths are made of. That's not going to go away.
And to a government in the infinite wisdom, we damage it, and probably there's a very serious danger that we will destroy the one achievement of the post-war period, which is the war. There are no institutions for it, no government thinks any further than to tip the knot of its nose. That wouldn't be too bad.
But in the next municipal election, if a bank's eternity is 90 days, a government, this is a very old, in the early 19th century, a great English historian said, eternity for any British prime minister is the next by-election.
And there's still, all one can say is that he was probably too generous.
It turned out to be their next election for sheriff was our capture.
That's eternity for any government.
Or haven't you listened to government speeches recently?
And they can damage it, they can destroy it, they can ruin it.
There is a very real danger of a collapse of the world economy in the banking sector.
I never liked those non-consortium banks as some of you may remember.
I never made any problems about it because it seemed to me to be basically unsound as bad.
Where you have domestic banks, you now have strong central banks who have learned to prevent a bank from collapsing.
It has been very good. Whether you talk of the Fed preventing a real crisis when the National Bank of Southern California, San Diego, what's the name of it?
collapse but you were national or frankly New York was a very dangerous
here the scriptures all the Germans who had a couple of tough ones all the
Italian nobody's ever accused the talent of being competent but that time they
were both my god they prevented collapse of the
banca privata or whatever it was in indonesia that could have been very interesting and they were
there rescuing it before it could collapse ah but those consortium banks in london don't have any
card policy there is no international central bank it could be very nasty so there may be a very
that moment but still realize that the dynamics are now in the world such crises as we have had
did not come out of the domestic economy it came out of saudi arabia uh so learn to watch it and
to factor into your thinking whether your market is east pasadena or multinational learn the lesson
of the successful californian businesses of 50 years ago who became successful because they learned
that their opportunity is the isolation of the californian market their cues come out of the
bigger national land it isn't too difficult you may see there are no figures on the world economy
You realize how few figures there were on the U.S. economy 15 years ago?
You realize that balance of payments concept didn't exist,
national income didn't exist, that the only one of the figures you're used to
which was known 50 years ago was balance of state.
Deposits, total deposits didn't exist, none of the money definitions M1 or M2
didn't exist. Velocity of money was an abstraction for the children of figures. In other words, that
figures are very recent concepts. So it isn't the absence of them. Sure, the world economy figures
are not correct. They're parity based. Concepts don't exist. We will have to learn, for instance,
that a balance of transaction and the balance of investment have to be kept separate. But in other
In other words, we are not running a balance of payment deficit at home today, we are running a tie with the balance of payment system.
There's liquidity that's flopping around, but you know that's of the nature of having a bathtub in an earthquake.
Makes the bathroom flow terribly wet, but that's about all.
You do not have the ocean rising. The ocean doesn't rise.
We will have to learn that, that liquid funds, since they cannot essentially stay out of investment by definition, are not part of the American people.
But I'm sure we'll have to do something about sterilizing them, but not very much, by the way, very little.
And if you look at the underlying, that's why England is sick, and we are not, and Germany is not nearly as healthy as you look.
And Italy is a hell of an opportunity, if you look.
Because these are kind of liquid points that have to be sampled, but are essentially have no impact.
You are a mechanical power for the central bank, but for nobody else.
And whether you learn to put them in a simpler place and just move figures from one side of the literature to the other, which is all we are doing today.
So what we do, it doesn't matter. We have no real impact. If we learn not to be scared.
On the other hand, the underlying movements are very important.
And let me say, we cannot maintain our present balance of payments. It's too high.
look at our most the balance of faith and the balance of actually missing
we haven't run such a band of things since about the 15th
oh and so and uh very largely the results of short-term agricultural
accidents he gets not bad whether a year later than the rest of the major two major great growth
areas whatever historical record shows you that these are worldwide phenomena
and these are the others are going to get good climate back or we are going to have a few years
of bad weather and short crops these are the one over the other the fact the positive probability
of who are growing better in the main moderate zone that being different for any length of time
between southern russia and the united states which is where any meteorological
weather almost nil in fact it is absolutely never happened the time lag sometimes is in the 30s
we have bad weather first by two years then they got sometimes their system they had bad weather
first then we got but either they are going to get back to a normal weather pattern with
normal rainfall. Or we are going to have, which is the probability, five years of drought in
marginal areas which correspond to in rainfall to, let's say, the Ukraine or
western China. These are areas in which you have your weather fluctuation, rainfall fluctuation
is between 12 and 24 inches what 24 inches is adequate good 18 inches is adequate and 12 inches
means no drought and no crops and these are the areas and they have always fluctuated in unison
and so our balance of payments is very heavily favored today by the fact that we have two years
the last few years, where we enjoyed very good meteorological conditions, while the other
corresponding areas, which have exactly the same climate, made in the same health kitchen of in
the foes, already had a drought at the lead time. Two years is about the maximum, so anybody who knew
anything about, not the meteorologists, who knew anything about just the pattern. Well, I wasn't
Because we did not be sure this would be a poor year. Everybody went to the Department of Ag and the grain pay was quite obvious.
And usually they're five to seven years. And it was about you to come every 40 years.
So that's going to mean that our balance of payment isn't going to be looked at next year in this year.
So, but learn to, the figures, it's not only that figures are hard to get by, but a good many of them we get are not, are misleading rather than leading. One has to think and analyze what is meaning for it.
Why? And then one looks at what happens. If you see the dollar getting stronger in the world market, when our official balance of payments get worse, then one says, don't trust the Fed. There's something wrong with the balance of payments figure.
Because that is obviously the current that people interpret our balance of payment as getting stronger. And then there's something funny going on with the figures. Someone says, what's wrong with your official definition?
But learn to look at the world economy, not because it dominates, but because it leads. And that's more important. In total volume, it is larger than any national economy.
And it made as large as the economy of any three or four major countries together. In other words, it is the largest single economy around. But it is not 50% of the total. Something like 30%.
in leadership being ahead of and therefore being and therefore come back pay attention to the fact
that on the world market all commodity prices are down but on the world market the real wages are
way down way down even though in terms of a country and of its own inflation they still
look like going up but in terms of what you buy what what eight hours of work by world market
there is no country where they are not at least three percent below last a year ago
world market tells you we are in an inflation uh the total deposits of the world market are
declining. Optimistic. But in the Euro-dollar market, in the Japanese, in the Asia-dollar market, in the Euro-yen market, in those peculiar non-existing
currencies, thank God, show you that there are limits to the powers of government, because they are all
came into existence without benefits of government, repudiated by government.
Government tries to, you see, they are very much like Oedipus. Government all puts them out
to die on the mountain. They came back and slew their father. And, thank God, there are limits to the power of government.
But deposits are defined, and check liabilities are defined, and look where to take your fuel from the world market. Not because it is dominant, but first because it is still not a manipulator.
There is no domestic economy which is not totally distorted, short-term, by governmental manipulation, partly because there is none in which 30 to 40 percent of the gross national product don't go through the government, partly because there is none that doesn't have government economists who present the figures that support their conclusions and are in control of them, so don't trust any figure you hear.
Partly because short-term government action can greatly distort the numbers and dirt the numbers.
The world market so far, the world economy, leads in every street.
Leads in every street. Very hard to distort.
No one government has enough leverage.
The U.S. government sorted it in their difference.
And so it is a market one can lead in every trust.
And partly because it has character dynamics in our business.
And so let me try to finish today by saying there are certain things operationally to do
to help you make your business not recession-proof.
There is no such thing as recession-proof business, but no protection against inflation.
And now I think you've all answered that question.
but to make it capable of surviving a short but violent turbulence.
If there should be a long depression, one has to think through policy again.
Quite different. A new ice age requires very different policies from a week of heavy rain.
But one better have a tent, an umbrella, galoshes, and above all a ground sheet.
have you ever been camped without the ground sheet you know what heavy rain some of us have
uh what you need about holding the ground sheet that's really what i've been talking about
from five to six years how to build yourself the ground sheet uh and if it turns out this is a new
ice age we'll have to think again uh but make sure that you don't drown that first night uh
And secondly, the second paragraph about wrong, that is always good, but that when you have good reason to dismantle.
Next week I would ask you things. I would like to have a question session on today.
I hope there are lots and lots of sense above all.
And then I want to, of course, outline cases so that we can decide where we are going to be.
where we are going to be.
I don't care either.
Any one of us.
Seven of us.
Any one of us.
But I don't think we should try to pass.
If we find we get through faster, we'll take a fifth one.
We are not about that.
Okay, do you all know your way back?
