We are going to tackle black American children number two.
Have you all read it?
Let me ask you, is it a typical case or an incident?
May I please ask you to learn the Mahoma dance in the first place?
I'd like you to remember that when we think about it as a journey,
I'd like you to learn anything from it,
if you're going to do it in the future.
And certainly, if you look for the purpose,
what does it mean to them?
Where has it been?
How has it been?
It's a typical relationship, typically in Washington.
What's the closest analogy to the organization or offense of the terrorists on Twitter?
Terrorists who say this is an infraction of a recent offense.
Where does lying in the staff come from? Anybody know?
Who is lying in the military?
What?
Really?
Lying in the staff.
They're lying.
They're willing to come back in the building.
You go back to the days when Chrysler was a profitable company at the size of the share
of the American automobile market.
How far back do we have to go?
What?
No, we have to go before we're old.
Well, how much did Chrysler manufacture, do you know?
What?
No, we have to go before the war.
How much did Chrysler manufacture?
Do you know?
The main thing is that
all Chrysler made was
design and engineering,
marketing and servicing.
Chrysler's great friend
was engineering himself.
And those of you who drive Chrysler cars
to this day,
don't drive them because of the way they are manufactured.
You drive them because of the way
The engine here is not signed. I said, never mind the sign. The engine here, and still, one reason why Christ was born is basically that there is still probably by and large, by and large, a significant exception.
He doesn't make a goddamn thing. The engine was made by Cummins and White. The frame was made by Aerosmith, his own car.
The body was made by Burt. The brakes were made by his own car. There was a transition here and there.
The wheels were made by Kelby Hayes. Wheels were made for everybody anyhow.
And so it went, the radiator, who made the radiator, you know, who made the variances?
GM, Chrysler, GM, Lord of Steel, they come, there are no GMs that buy from GM, except the body companies, they have to, they claim they have to, claim they have to buy the body companies.
It's very hard to see, frankly, a famous writer who can run outside of prison.
Who would have told you body time?
And what's the emergency?
His own body time, Patricia?
Four times, his own body time.
Where would Brother Dick have gone?
Anybody buy a body time order to own a body time?
A body time is only 30 if you have an orthodontic system.
Now notice what public vanities, besides the living room, how many businesses are the vanities?
In just five weeks, magnificent operation, we get seven-times computer run.
That's beautiful. That's amazing.
The end of the plan, in order to be able to change it, can't buy off.
How much does the unit need?
But then you might be in the picture of how much it would be $180,000.
But most manufacturers, they don't even use it.
First of all, supply isn't hard.
Value added is very low.
If you use value added in the market, it's not cheap.
It's cheap to find out.
If you were to go back to 1880,
you'd see that most manufacturers found out that,
if you go back, what happens?
Industrial borders.
You can take care of it.
You don't need it.
You don't need it.
They're too critical.
and the weeds grow fast, and the seeds grow fast, no cotton.
After that, you don't need, you only destroy it.
The plant is in shade, but in the first four weeks,
it's a slow-growing plant, and weeds grow fast,
and so you don't need.
And you need another 10 days to harvest.
And in between that, there's not a thing you can do,
except to damage.
You're not going near the things.
You know, birds don't need cotton.
You don't even have to have to send little boys out to scare the crows away.
Various, but not this much.
And basically, they decide to hold me, the customer, as not an attractive plant to make plants at.
They make tomatoes, they're a very serious plant, but all you need is sunshine and rain at the right time,
and that you cannot supply at your cost.
Not even if you're trying to reform your business.
Uh, those are very, very economically
tobacco, a brilliant idea in 1935.
Suddenly, the cotton for 35 years was the highest.
And a lot of stuff was made out of cotton.
It had to be made out of
very, very strong cotton.
Mulberry seeds, on the other hand,
cannot stand very narrow valley.
And so, it could not be expanded.
Third is the price, because it costs you a lot of stuff for velvet and velvet, demand for velvet.
You can go to the high end of the high end of the land, but the corporation passing the C or what have you went out in 1913.
It's passing through the 17 year life, they were taken out in 1819, 17 great days.
Well, in terms of the industrialized demand, believe me, the automatic movement, nobody that you know of, held in physics or thermodynamics, is a perfectly good human, and every which is good is, well, God knows.
The only problem was that at the time, in 1700 or 1710, nobody could turn out the engine, it was really smooth, so that the newcomer engine lost most of the heat.
Can you all hear me? That's it. And that's why the newcomer Indian never really became conscious. What great achievement was not, not invention, but the realization that there's a new reamer for the first time, you could actually ream a cylinder that at the same time fitted a piston and vice versa and get this really tight fit, and so you didn't lose more than 10-20 level coal mines where you had no choice other than,
but otherwise it was simply not economical.
Steve, oh, there it is.
Can anybody run out and grab that evidence?
It just went out.
And so, 1730 on this, 1890, including Steve.
This is an old product, so once you know it,
Steve didn't see any metallurgy.
It's a high-carbon iron.
He believed that, but he knew what methamphetamine did.
Oh, and he doesn't know anything about it.
okay fine not the thing we can do about it the pen mic is mounting a reconnaissance
several problems if he doesn't know what we're looking for
exactly if he found it he couldn't otherwise
I was doing good shit, and, but, we are not that bad, I don't know, but, yeah, but what happened to my wife today, you know, so, we buy and sell, we take the focus products for which they demand, for the, all you needed was, for the quantity and price,
you could lower the price below that of the craftsman and the flying quantities
beyond that of the craftsman you had in name the demand was there that's right good let's
see what you have there uh and uh not really what we want to do
And then let me say, beginning, steel may be the turning point, because, you see, that
was an in-between product, what Bessemer and Martin, who was the first one who made steel
in what year?
The first one was Siemens, not Werner, but his father Charles Frederick, who was English
in 1856.
And the Siemens-Martin turn, and Bessemer the same year, six months later in Belgium
in another factor.
What they both came out with is very important, because most people don't understand, for 400, 500 years, people make bricks.
If you have a Japanese sword or a Damascene blade, it's harder and softer layers, otherwise you get, if they're too hard, you get too brittle, too soft, it doesn't cut, it doesn't bend.
So steel is a laminated, not an alloy, steel is iron of varying carbon content and which is laminated together.
Hammer them on top of each other one layer and you hammer it and you anneal it and you quench it till it's very brittle and very hard.
Then you put the next one on with much less carbon content in the stock.
And the Japanese blade had 64 blades, we bonded together, each one, 64, but you can imagine how long it took to do it, and you did it, you didn't make steel, you made a saw, nobody could make steel, you made a product out of steel, you laminated it, and everybody had to be trying for 400 million dollars of interest, trying to find a steel making process, but nobody can do it.
And suddenly those two men, independent of each other,
a Belgian and a German, both in England,
looked upon and said, this is the wrong way of doing it.
What are the specs of the end product?
The specs are the high carbon ion has that point
where you balance the brittleness of the high carbon
content with the ability of the load.
And what is out is metallurgically not
The steel was an iron under the microphone, quite different.
But it does most of the work, Steve.
But it's, you know, a good Japanese blade,
you cut the feather and you split the blade,
you cut in half, I don't think you can do that
with anything you would speak for.
How often do you need to?
So, a good Japanese blade, you know, go like this,
and the head is over there, and the body is over there,
and yet the fellow hasn't felt any pain.
Well, again, you don't have to do that very often.
If you intend to kill somebody, you are not that confused.
It may be a little ragged.
No more.
But those are the things you can't do.
The way of looking at it,
the end spectrum.
And then the second began maturing.
The first product that was not an existent fertilizer,
synthetic fertilizer,
Maria,
you know, went and went.
Modern technology begins with the founding of Sweden.
The essence of modern technology is not invention.
It is the application of science.
And that begins when craft, race, and logic.
In the middle of the 19th century, the English had lost it.
Just today, if you look at electronics or avionics,
the English are way in the legal economy.
they don't convert it into power, because they lacked the NDE and not established the French.
For them, they founded a military NDE in Stuttgart and so on, three as late as the Germans,
but not in the military, it was a school of mining, and another 20 years later, the Germans
took the English, the English are the great pioneers of the economy, late 1738, but that
That was a gentleman on their estate, hammered the science.
The Germans started the school of agronomy, of agriculture.
Still exists, one copy.
And then the French Napoleon copying the German school of agronomy
from the two engineers, two schools of technology,
old craft, one they called Polytechnic of Engineering,
which is the father of all engineering,
And he, if I know him, has four pieces.
If he writes, he considers it crap.
The father of one piece of college.
And the British never adopted anyone.
They kept the gentleman engineers.
And individually, nobody has ever come close
to those geeks of the British.
But they had no engineering.
They had to take a race of humans.
And some of them were just products.
All right.
Thank you.
And out of the German agronomic boom in 1800 came the first, came the breakthrough into
organic chemistry.
It was mainly to prove that plants are not spread by some mysterious life forces but by chemicals.
And what the chemicals were, they were synthesized.
We were in 1876 synthesized for a year.
And three years later, we turned it into fertilizer and built the first chemical industry of that time.
That was the first product that was not a new process, a new power applied to old processes, making old products, but a new process applied to a new product that didn't exist.
And the second one, what was it? Didn't exist, but the printing press, before, also didn't exist, that printing press was not written for mix and match.
It didn't work that way, it used move of the type, but it used the move of the type to feed the negative, totally new process of printing.
And those were the first products. There were enough old products, existing products, done by new, by buying power. And then the electrical industry, the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the electronic industry, these are industries that have new products.
And then marketing came in. The old products, they didn't have to market. And if you look, the classic case is Singer Sewing Machine.
It wasn't Isaac Singer who realized that the sewing machine was not an old product.
What made Mr. Clark the real father of the sewing machine, even though he was a mostly lawyer,
was that he realized that the sewing machine was not an old product, and therefore the selling could not be farmed out,
and he organized the selling as a corporate activity.
And in the same year, Cyrus McCormick did the same for the Reaper, which again he realized wasn't an old product.
Old products, they didn't organize, they farmed it out. The market was there.
She was dead, all she had to do was suffocate.
The custom was well-written.
And sure, women have been sewing for thousands of years,
and the whole household sewed, obviously, from the heaviest woman's store,
the nastiest, the least satisfactorily curious to help foster children.
There were no patterns, there were no tools, there were scissors and needles,
And you had very poorly bad homespun materials that you could barely handle even if you had a heavy scissor, knife.
And so the sewing machine, women's liberation in the home.
They would typewrite and telephone the women's liberation outside the home.
It is possible for respectable women to live in the ring without being dependent on any protection.
There is the use of the word upside down.
last Japanese video exchange in Hamas, there isn't a woman in there. By that time, you had women out there.
But in the 1880s, you read an ad in the paper for a military for the man.
So, and marketing, as long as you are making products, success.
Thank you very much. Hooray!
You see, modern technology, occasionally one ought not to do an environmental thing.
Thanks. And so always says what cannot be formed out. That is the business. That's what you get paid. And in the automobile industry, let me say, there is no process in there that five million machine shops can't do.
Basically you deal with processes which by now, not in 1910, but by now are routine.
Oh, it will cost a little more here.
That's mostly a matter of the learning curve.
If you keep it this way, five years from now, you will have to pass it on.
It is design and engineering and marketing and service.
That's the automobile industry.
you drive a Volvo you know the difference between a Swedish made Volvo and an American made Volvo?
When you go and buy one do you? Next time you go buy a Volvo make sure you don't buy an American
made Volvo because that is manufactured and they don't know how. The Swedish made Volvo is
assembled by Volvo out of English made parts and they know how to assemble and they know how to do
quality control for parts that come under 50 miles over the water and so it is you know
uh and they're very good at that absolutely hopeless as many times they don't know how
when there's quality control in manufacturing if you assemble you don't want your quality control
and there you have very good quality if you manufacture that's the wrong place to do
and they don't know it. And so the American made Volvo a lemon, and the Swedish made one
that was occasionally capable of being driven without too much trouble.
Because Volvo, when it went into existence, it couldn't bring the English force in,
mostly John Lukacs, who had excess capacity with the English automobile factory,
and it couldn't buy any. So it began making them, and it isn't very good at making them.
But it's also the wrong business, one way they design, the other way they market.
And therefore they should have worked that form out.
And Volkswagen has avoided that mistake.
It's buying. Volkswagen makes almost nothing.
Volkswagen is another example.
The engine here, enough to transition.
Anybody know who makes a Volkswagen Transmission?
Volkswagen doesn't touch Transmission.
And so, let's see, what can one form out?
out, is always the question. And that is then, in the pharmaceutical industry, you can't farm out research, you can't farm out
clinical testing, but you also cannot farm out services. But making, while it is very
There are lots of people in one fermentation, but they have an enormous volume, but there are big pharmaceutical companies that don't sell their license, that are research and development, you know, this line of French from Westpac, not yet designed, because it is a preferred license for the French.
And Roussel in France and Ron Poulon,
are afraid of the Americans.
They are very happy to have somebody who knows them,
or known to the American doctors.
So they are in a symbiotic relationship.
And they don't make anything.
And basically, most of them,
the main offer for Ron Poulon was through a licensee.
They are making enough to keep quality.
They don't sell.
And after that, by ever development,
might be well-earned, and research is for selling and supplying the stock.
So one looks at business analytically, because that one don't get paid.
You can only try to get paid for what you did, for nobody else.
And then, the short history of modern industry, 200 years is not very long.
We have gone through the stage where we started out there making stuff with what you got paid.
If you look at the best history of the 19th century, Engels ran a big company and ran it very well,
even though he gave very little time to it, in part because domestic arrangements were very time-consuming.
And secondly, the business began to flourish after one of them died.
And secondly, because he spent so much of his time working with Marx and looking after that, very difficult. Marx men are emotionally and financially very difficult.
But he ran one of the biggest sections, German-owned, family-owned in Leipzig.
You were only too glad to have a mini-English,
of this both Irish-Milhams,
and therefore not really welcoming it,
like to pick up from middle-class homes,
apart from the fact that they had the queen's idea
that one might be enough.
And they were on top of that identical queen.
So you were always addressing the wrong ones, you know.
So they didn't really want him home.
Well, there were, there were cycles, yes, there were hard times when demand fell off,
famine, but then you couldn't do anything by saying that was anyhow.
The people in Ireland were dying because the potato blight destroyed their single source
of nourishment.
You know, it's very hard to sell cotton textiles to somebody who is dying of starvation.
No sales effort will really get you very far.
And the best TV ad is unlikely to produce customers.
All you can do is tighten your belt and hope it will be over.
And it eventually did.
And you had financial crises and the present day habit of cutting back advertising in bad times.
time. Take back to the time it was rational. Today it's irrational. Today advertising the fixed expense one doesn't come back. You lose. You don't expand it in good times. Anybody who says 2% of our sales going to advertising doesn't know our advertising. That thing, like saying 2% of our sales going to capital investment. A market is a capital investment because of the fixed expense. So when they're not overspending, they're
time, and one doesn't cut back the fewer ones. In fact, if anything, one increases because fewer
times are the time to get market share away from competitors who have to cut back their sales and
promotions. But not until 1835 or 1860. Sure, you could turn out the wrong mixture of fashion,
and you had to make, but you had to make productions. Where are we going to make only
unbleached goods in large quantities and so on,
where we're going into the finishing end of the production.
And that changed.
So here in our case, the question is,
you see, the way the bank answers,
setting our friends up as an autonomous,
wholly-owned subsidiary,
in effect, the theory is that it's manufacturing at a cost.
But it's not.
How does it say that it's a cost?
Within the bank, it's the manufacturer.
And there is nothing on it.
It's strange, you know, about manufacturing, the price, the wealth of the manufacturing companies, that's what nobody thinks.
GM, how many employees does GM have? What's happening? How many of those are manufacturers?
And if you look at the GM system, where the dealers come in, it doesn't change.
Because the dealer, you know, the bulk of his people are in the service shop, not there.
Unless he forms out his service, and doesn't repair second-hand cars and stuff.
But the greatest workload in a dealer shop is to take that two-year-old car you bring in,
the fenders are dented, one headlight is broken, you've had six kids in there,
and you know what it looks inside.
You probably have two, they lost a few white mice in the rear seat.
In other words, to make it look good enough so that the trucker will buy it.
Now, with the paint job, clean it, replace that broken scratch and broken window, set
the speedometer back, and the other things that enable you to sell it at a weak condition
cost.
That, now, a good many dealers don't do that immediately, unload these cars to wholesale.
Who then do it?
But that's where the labor force is.
never seen they are there and yet nobody thinks that therefore manufacturing should run steel
uh run gm so the manufacturing man in gm is a very important man because he is the cost center
uh and nobody thinks that the service manager runs the dealership so it's the cost center now
Now, he is more than to buy a car increasingly because of his services here,
not those services that had to become a revenue center.
And that's causing more trouble in the automobile leadership than anything else.
But the whole social system of the leadership,
they're becoming a part of top management.
And putting pressure on the manufacturer to supply cars that can't be serviced properly.
There's more and more, there's more trouble, you know, all the environmental pressures
together.
The customer hands up more and more, you hear, uh, I won't ever buy a Chevy again.
I got that through a CIV.
You don't say it's through a car.
It's CIV.
That means you're directed or tested or not mixed with service managers.
You're marketing.
You're selling it.
And that causes a tremendous upheaval in the industry.
And if you know the first one, what was the first one?
Volkswagen's success.
Volkswagen was, from the beginning, organized around the city.
At home with everything.
And that was the secret of its success.
Really.
Very early.
And it's a very hateful company.
And that's the reason why people are coming to Volkswagen.
So other automobiles can't provide it for non-automobiles.
Because of the social structure.
They built around the city.
Not the engineers, not the designers, not the marketers.
The editors are the engineers.
And that's now the patients who are in there.
Because that's the way the customers are treated.
Now here, so what our fellow here,
our products, they enable you.
And I have no intention of interfering with your buying and selling money.
I hear this, and you do.
Everything else you see is a process.
Manufacturing is a production.
It's a production, but it's a character work.
Let me tell you that there is no such thing as character work.
There are characters, but he's a character work.
