is other people let me say one person's judgment on another human being is utterly worthless
partly because we can't rid ourselves of prejudice or first impressions uh
you know here that fellow worked for you 18 years ago and he was an insecure shy beginner
and gauche and that's you that was 18 years ago when he was 23 but that's what you still see
but also he came in you know at age 23 and he was very brilliant
you were very impressed but 18 years later he is a grand art stick but you still see that brilliant
beginner he just didn't live up to his front oh he parts his hair in the middle and you don't even
know it, but you are very allergic to that. Or he speaks with a good, flat Nebraska accent,
with this kind of grates. Well, he was born in Omaha, you know, where they speak that
way. And you don't notice it. Or you met his wife and she is just a horror. Yeah, but you
you know, you're appointing him and not them. And then one checks with other people. And
it's amazing if you superimpose judgments and impressions. How reliable is a picture
of a council? And you don't need very many, four, five. And you know, you have that
uneasiness feeling in the tip of the stomach about this prison. And if you find three other
three other people sharing it, and all saying, Joe, Joe has done awfully well in every job,
but you know what, you never had a good feeling about it. Then you listen. That means something.
But you have said, I need a feeling, and nobody else has. Well, then this will go on. Or,
here's Joe, and Joe has worked beautifully for you, and beautifully for Jim. But Tom
and Bob, and you know Tom and Bob, and they're fairly easy people to work with. See, Joe
never did a damn thing for me.
I don't know why.
Very common.
Joe works with certain kinds of people
and can't work with others.
He's not very...
Joe is terribly rigid.
He can't adapt to a boss.
Very common.
You've all seen it, haven't you?
Well, that's a fact.
That man looks at the boss.
That man says,
here, Joe will have to work for us.
Never.
And then you suddenly realize what's wrong.
Joe is a man who's depressed.
Very common.
In fact, let me see as an old consultant, one has to learn to work with manic depressive because otherwise one couldn't work at all.
Because they're common.
Which means that every so often, Joe goes into it.
Don't call it a depression, don't call it be strong.
He's got clarity to him for what is a subacute thing.
But that's when he needs somebody to stroke his fever brow.
somebody to tell him we all love you joe and at the same time kick him hard where it is
front or back but hard well you know one doesn't have one has
love for my professors there are no sympathies don't ever say my god the world is horrible they
don't need you for that they know that already but we love you we adore you and put him to work and
kick what they need is getting out don't say go home and sleep it off that's fine for a handover
not for a depression and you know and you know this you do it without thinking it and here is
ricky and ricky is our best executive but that's not the way he works and the manic depression
needs a little insight or he goes into his personal formula because that's what they are
Or you have somebody who can only work if somebody sits down and says,
A, B, C, D, and between C and D you come and see me.
You know the type?
And not everybody can work there.
Or you have somebody who cannot stand it,
and is not flexible enough to adapt.
And then one thinks twice.
But then I also understand. You know John and Jim and Tom and Bob and Jane, worked with them for years, and two of those five, including you two, have found working with Jim absolutely delightful and very easy.
The other three, Jane says, he's all right, this number, okay.
The other two said, he's been absolutely miserable.
Well, then you look at them and then you suddenly understand, Jim.
You understand that when one checks these people,
but that is making the placement decision.
It's your most important decision and most of you spend no time on it.
You make it by visibility and most of you in this room,
in this room most of your promotions are very proven incompetent but that's the
most visible things there is you're making that visibility and then you owe
it to people and to yourself to give them a chance to make the new job
succeed by challenge ninety days hundred and twenty days later you will move them
on and say you are in a new job and it's a new job and now will you please think
through what a new job requires. It's the only way you can find out that you and that
person whom you put in there do not see eye to eye. Here he comes back and tells you he's
going to make this museum a cultural discotheque. Well, that was not what you had in mind.
And you see, you know your faculty, you know it's going to be a problem. Now, then you know that you
You either say to the museum director, look, my boy, this isn't going to work here.
Or you say, you go ahead and do it, and I'll protect you.
I'll take the flag. It's my job as your boss.
One of the most important things a boss can do is enable subordinates to do their work and take the flag.
And all right, the art history faculty is going to scream high time that those old fogies got shooken up.
and the graduate council is going to raise bloody murder,
or maybe we move the museum out of the graduate council.
Maybe it's important enough to fight for. Maybe it isn't. If it isn't important,
one says to them, look, maybe you're right. For all I know,
you're right. But it isn't, the museum is not that
important to us to have that fight over it. We have
plenty of fights ahead. And let me say, one of the
old rules of strategy is one fights on a battlefield of one's own choosing.
Possibly has a choice. Whoever can pick the battlefield has won
half the battle. And the museum is not the battlefield I'm going to
going to fight out. The basic question of the function of the multiversity,
which is what you are raising. It's a wrong issue.
Even if I... How does one decide what the right issue be, you know?
We have several military people here who have probably lived in some strategy schools.
How does one decide if it gets you anywhere?
That's simple.
You fight it out and it gets you nowhere.
It's a wrong battle.
You fight that battle where if you win it, you then control the mountain passes
or the river fords or the plains.
But if all you control, it gets you no place.
If you have to slug it out again and again, then you better not fight.
So this issue, you look at it, we fight.
All right, he's absolutely right.
We are stodgy, we are old-fashioned, we are stuck in the 50s,
and these are the late 70s, and academia lives in a different environment,
and we have to think, yes, sir.
Do you know before the fight, was it for the fight?
I think it's true.
What?
I think it's true that if we win, will it get to any place?
or if you win, will you only have made enemies?
To what?
How do you know if it's worth fighting to win?
Well, you don't know whether you can win it.
And you always take a risk when you're going to fight,
you know?
The other one, the other fellow might have flashbacks.
And in academia, you know that for sure,
you don't have to get.
And so, but you see, all right,
all right. We take a risk anyhow. But let's assume we win it. Does it get us any place?
Or are we just locked in until more? And have only alerted the enemy so that he can then
mobilize for the real fight. We say the best strategic story, I hope you don't mind me
telling a Brazilian story of 20 years ago, which you know anyhow. You know the story
The story of the two Brazilian generals, this is way back when Brazil was probably in the
real 1950s, who sat and bemoaned the sad state of their country, and one said to the other,
I know the answer.
We declare war on the United States.
You know the story?
Yes.
But the rest of you don't.
And so this other general said, you damn fool, we lose that war.
He said, of course we lose it.
Then they have to come in and rebuild us.
And the second one thinks deeply and thinks it's too risky.
Assume we win.
That's a very profound strategic story.
When we're struggling, if you win, don't fight.
And so, let me say the corollary to that.
And this is part of, not of the same story, but of the same lesson,
is when the cardinal climate of Brazil went to the first Vatican of Pope Leo.
He was being asked, how come Brazil, such a castle, a country, so rapidly losing its religion?
And he said, that's very simple.
Most Brazilians now believe that the contract for fuel supply to hell
has been given to the brazilian petroleum monopolies and no longer any fear of hell around
so part of the same story and no so
maybe that art is here we say right place to fight it out because we establish principles
and we have a contained fight and it's so obviously right and money is on our side
financial pressures there's no place where money speaks as loudly as in
nonprofit institutions and some of you from hospitals know so it's on our side
maybe it's a worst possible place because we erase all the issues and we
could absolutely nothing except grief or it is even worse we erase all the issues
but we have a poor case. We read it where our case is the weakest, and our chances for winning, therefore, are very poor.
As far as the Art Museum goes, it is so clear that it is the wrong place to ask the question of the university's mission, which we are asking.
Because the art museum, in its very nicely confined place, that is the one place in the
university where yesterday is the right answer for tomorrow.
And so one doesn't raise tomorrow in it, because then we get defeated on principles.
The precedents are against us, one looks for the issue where one has allies and has a strong
case.
So, but that's strategy, we're not talking about it.
But, so one looks at, one takes the people,
one takes placement decisions seriously,
and one takes seriously the responsibility
to challenge people who have moved into a new job
to think about it, and to realize
that they are in a new job,
and that just because their title is the same,
their director of a museum,
their job is totally different.
or just because it's a promotion.
What they have done to earn the promotion
is not appropriate on the new job, which is very common.
Now let's look at the second hypothesis here,
that this is an organizational problem.
How does one test that?
How do you test?
Somebody comes to you and says,
look at our product development, it's in engineering,
and all we get out of the damn thing
are expensive product modifications. Anybody here know what I'm talking about?
It's just constant friction between product development and marketing and product development and manufacturing
and we don't get any new products and maybe it's in the wrong place.
Doesn't belong in India. How does one test that?
Over here you have your quality control and the manufacturing as good many of you do
and all the small quality problems get caught and none of the big ones do and
the customer screen and marketing screens and quality control screens and
maybe it doesn't belong in the manufacturing but the manufacturing
people are goddamned if you put in any other place it has to do with what goes
on in the plant and if you want me to be responsible for the plant you better you
know, we have all heard it, haven't we? So, are they a test example? Yes, sir?
We examined the problem, this being caused, whether it's a design problem, QA gets a
clarification.
I hope you will accept from me that I no longer make studies, and certainly not another study.
You have made that study, haven't you? Not before you get to that point. Maybe you won't
and in particular can suppress the desire to make another study.
I used to believe that one practices first control on studies.
I've now reached the extreme position of a, or still one has to go, one practices abstinence.
I used to say, before I make a study, I have to be convinced, or at least a good case has
to be made that the study will turn up anything new, and that the new will have to be important
and relevant.
And unless I can be convinced of this, I won't sanction the study.
And I have now realized that it is much easier to say no, because they're all in practicality
new studies that really pass my criteria. No, we have a better way, you know. Organization
problems we know how, and one doesn't make a study, even though you may have a report
of it. One thinks through how things would work under different organizational assignments,
arrangements, or makes what the physicists call a Gedanken experiment, a thought experiment.
And one says, all right, now let's assume we move that product development to marketing. Now, how would, what are the fundamental challenges and tasks of product development? Would it work any better? Would it be materially helpful? Would it be unchanged, unaffected? Would it be worse?
In our product development we have a very real problem in that everything is being engineered
down to the very last production model and there is no market test.
Or we have a very real problem in that in product development the question of how much would it have,
would the price have to be for it to be saleable is never being asked.
Now those are things which, moving it under marketing, would materially improve in all ideas.
On the other hand, let me see if you have a problem in product development,
that while you come out with beautiful designs that your salesmen would love to sell them,
you can't manufacture the damn thing.
It's designed to be produced by elves in the black forest, and not by a plant.
You know, that isn't being helpful, but being put in the market.
Not in the least, on the contrary, if anything.
And if your product development problem is that you have good people in there,
but they never get to developing products because they are all running around with band-aids for existing products.
That's not going to be helpful to be put in the market.
They're only going to put band-aids on different parts of the old products.
But the marketing is, every salesman, anybody here ever seen a salesman?
A few of you have. Every salesman I know always comes in and says,
if I had this in vermilion yesterday, I could have sold it.
So make it in vermilion.
Every salesman is always trying to recapture the big one that went away yesterday.
And that is part of the salesman's job.
And so if your product development people tend to be eaten up by modification, by defensive
work, and to have all those big plant projects for tomorrow in their plans, when you then
actually look at who works on them, the office boy works on them, everybody else is running
around with a screwdriver, fixing yesterday's problems, but then by putting it under marketing
are going to improve it. You're just substituting different modifications. And so on, one says,
would the key problems be materially effective, the key relationships? One thinks it through
and now applies this to this museum. Here it is in the graduate faculty, not because anybody
planned it that way in fact in academia nobody ever planned anything which is one that you see
one of the reasons why so many things work you all know the basic law of statistics that if
if the probability of a statistical distribution is less than 50 percent then you're better off
with randomness. But therefore academia works better than you long-range planners usually do,
because your process has, in most cases, a probability well below 50 percent. And then
academia where nobody interferes with things, because nobody knows what goes on, has a certain
random things, occasionally things happen because it's sheer probability, you know.
Sometimes it must work out. But here it is in the graduate faculty. Where can you move?
What else could you do? What could you do? How many options do you have? Within the constraints
of academic organization. Well, one would be to make it a department of the graduates.
And one would be to make it a separate school. These are the things you can do in academia.
And one would be to make it one of those free-floating parishes that report to administration
directly and have, let me say, never appoint one advisory committee alone. That's dangerous.
Six. You can be sure that they won't do any damage.
Six. How many of you have seen that little four-page flyer,
the takeoff on the organization of a Protestant church?
Any of you? It's one of the funnier things.
I only know it because the author who is the state,
who is the executive vice president, I think, of the Presbytery,
sent it to me because he suddenly realized that maybe I would object to it.
I did. He underrated my sense of humor greatly, but never met me.
The story is that here is the management consulting firm of Brooklyn Townsend,
Bob Townsend of XAVS. What's the name of his book?
And we have the management consulting firm clearly in New York City.
And one fine day in the evening I wander into his office, or Brooker wanders into his office
just as the lights go on in all these guys' papers, and says, I'm totally browned out.
We have been so successful, it's a really no large business anymore, the need to be
organized, but only somebody in the Presbyterian Church could have such a conceit, because
it's not the same. And what do we do now? And one of us said, well, let's try to design
the worst possible organization. And so we call in our staff and give them the assignment,
and each comes up with their most impossible thing. And we add some more up, and we have
the organization of the Protestant Church, and believe me that's the way it is, but one
of the, but at least they have 11 advisory committees on everything so that none of them
does any damage. And so, it's called Up the Church Organization, it's incredibly funny,
and so you might make it a free-floating the University Art Museum by the way
that solution would be greatly recommended by the peculiarities of
federal funding under which money from the endowment for the arts and from the
endowment for the humanities cannot go to a university. That's how we lost our
Claremont Music Festival. As part of the Claremont University, we needed very little money.
The only way to get it back, and it was fantastic success, was to incorporate it
separately, and then we would have gotten all the money from Washington. We needed
only a few thousand bucks. It was practically break-even. And the colleges didn't want to do
right you're wrong me that's another matter but for the president but I think
that was five years ago and today we'll do money as we go these disorders might
be able to raise the money and so but the free-floating one that reports not
to any academic office but to well like any university is the big one they have
65 vice presidents this is vice president communications I can always
have one of those and you know or some so it's outside of the educational
system and you don't have to worry about the academic Senate and you don't have
to worry about tenure and you have a great deal of flexibility or you can set
it up as a university, the school, the university art museum and museum school and have a director
of the museum within of the school or you can make it a department within the graduate school
or you can leave it where it is and let me say when you look at it not one of these things
includes. You're just where you were before. You just exchange one problem for another.
You are making a separate institution and I can assure you that nobody is going to do
any work in that museum for the next ten years because they're all going to have it over
the allocation of undergraduate credits and money, of course. And all of you have spent
spent enough time on allocation of overhead expenses, haven't you? You have no
idea. These colleges are very relaxed places compared to big
universities. And yet a student, student isn't so bad, but a Pomona faculty member
offers one course in the graduate school and they have four years of negotiations
about the allocation of his salary and at least four high-ranking administrators
every one of whom makes twice as much as the assistant professor that spent 30%
of the time for four years on that problem and if somebody is irreverent as
I come along and say, look children, roll with dice.
This throw me out bodily, and you know, this is really, that's not irreverent, that's a willing to take, they're open-minded, but that's immoral, but at least it's over, or just go on eeny, meeny, miny, moe basis, you know, this one you pay for, the next one we pay for, that's unprincipled.
But don't laugh, you do exactly the same, don't you?
That's why we're laughing.
And, you know, I used to complain that here are those high-priced research people,
each of them a potential Nobel Prize winner,
who spent four months arguing over the allocation of the cost of one bottle of India in 185.
You've all been through it, haven't you? I don't complain anymore, because this is much better than the arguing over the allocation of something that matters, which is the alternative.
So, this is what you have to do. Now, none of these alternatives will solve for anything.
All right. Partly because the world of a university is divided into undergraduate and graduate and the museum is not.
So you cut the cross. And then it's a facility for the faculty of a department and very closely related to their work.
And you split it off from them and suddenly everybody.
Today the art faculty is delighted with the opportunity to spend a great deal of
time on that catalog on Tibet North. You have no idea how much time a catalog
takes. You cannot imagine. They love it. It's scholarly work. They get credit for
it. You split it off and suddenly this is in addition to their teaching and it
interferes with your own research and you'd have to make separate budgetary
It's just a headache. It's a nightmare. And it isn't the school. You don't want to have, to accept students into it.
A few of your graduate art students go into museum work. And yes, and then you have a place where they can do their apprenticeship.
But you don't, you, but the museum school happens to be a very expensive proposition.
you have to start with this faculty and we have no students for it and this way
you yes you have a few people who go into museum work how large is the
museum market in the US got any idea oh no no oh about a thousand a year
museum market is the most booming market of the world not only there's every
respect to the educational institution. I have a museum. We have two years of family colleges. We never had any professional management. Now we do. And rightly so. But they don't, but here, Palm Springs just opened a museum. You all know about it, don't you? Santa Barbara has one, don't you?
North and Simon has what is now one of the great museums of the world.
Getty has opened. Pacifica has gotten money now.
Not much, but some. Oh no, this is a booming market.
But it is still not thousands of people. You have up to
a thousand a year for whom they have paid jobs.
It's maybe at its peak because so many of them depend
on municipal subsidies which are being cut back
very shocked they're suffering from the crisis of the city and they have been
rather lush in their staff many of them but it's not this but that's one but
it's still a limited month and if you can face a dozen people a year 15 but
doing very well so you don't want the hell of a lot hell of a big school and
if you don't have that the economics are just fierce because this is bad they
have to learn a lot of restoration work. And don't forget that art dealers and museum people
have to know much more than art historians, because an art historian specializes on the
Spanish Baroque in the 16th century, you know. And a museum man can't do that, nor can an
art dealer do that. He may not know quite as much about the Spanish Baroque of the 16th
You may not be able to look at a piece of culture and immediately tell you what workshop it came from.
But he has to be able to do it within a week.
But then the week after that, what comes in is not a fake piece of Spanish sculpture,
but a Persian illuminated manuscript.
And the week after that, you know, he gets the 19th century American seascaping.
He has to be far more exposed to the art history, and at the same time he has to know how to run a budget,
and how to attract visitors, and how to mount an exhibition, and how to restore, and how to...
This is about five to eight years, training to deal with, or six, went to very expensive, very small classes.
So we don't really want to do it, but the way we do it, we can afford it.
If you set it up as a school, you couldn't anymore, and we couldn't get enough students there.
The way we do it as a very successful byproduct of our graduate art history work,
where a few young men or women want to go and drift into museum work,
and we have a museum where they can actually learn by doing,
then we can even then we can pay him a graduate assistantship idea don't don't
rock that boat and so I think if you look at it the organizational hypothesis is in
all likelihood going to a backboard here on this one but you don't know that in
advance until you play through let me see an organization one is not brilliant
one plays it through because you can't see these things in advance and if you know
Organizations should never be done by...
We need organizational theory to know what's available,
but not what to do.
What to do is one has to figure it out.
One looks at it and says, now, where does it fit?
And will it work well here?
Not in terms of people, but of time and relations.
And what may be the product development?
Anybody know, by the way, what the only organizational structure is in which product development works?
On its own. Except for you. I don't know how many of you have done it. For five years you have it in
marketing, then you get so much arthritic deposit in the joint that you move it into engineering
and then it doesn't work either. It's basically neither engineering, not design or marketing,
ignore it, it really boasts a different animal, a different creature.
And it is very unpleasant to have it separate, but at least it functions.
And if you really want a new product, and you know one reason why is just the demand of keeping yesterday alive is so great
that if you put it into either marketing or engineering, it will be swallowed.
But also, if it's really new, it doesn't fit the existing scope, either of product or of
not.
And so, if you put it within the existing structure, it either disorganizes the structure,
or the structure will squeeze into this.
And we have learned, if you really want product development or innovation, you're better moved.
And it's a different spirit, you look at things differently, but that's a footnote.
One looks, one thinks through organization with the question, here are the key relationships
and the key demands and the key needs.
Will they work any better?
They're likely to if we move it here.
Well, then we have available options because, well, one can't just do everything.
You see, here you have a university and there are certain things you cannot do anywhere.
It just don't work.
And other things the university can do, you wouldn't dream of thinking about in a building
because it just don't fit within the university structure.
Whatever you do with that museum, you have the same problem, only more so.
Sure, maybe you set it up in such a way that the director reports to the dean,
where today the director is kind of miskirk of the report to anybody, you didn't have to.
Maybe you set it up so that, well, I wouldn't even recommend that.
I wouldn't recommend you to go in for honest bookkeeping.
I very rarely recommend that. It's always too dangerous.
But in a way, you really think through how much of the art history budget does the museum really,
the museum budget and vice versa. Leave it that way. Nobody is greatly bothered by it.
The art history faculty has to be someplace, doesn't it? And it's in the museum, fine.
And on the other hand, the art history faculty is perfectly willing to give you an evening
lecture and delighted with them and then don't talk about separate compensation and teaching
go leave it to somebody who raises that problem. But maybe you have to. And none of your graduate
students complained about working in a museum. On the contrary, it's a tremendous process.
They see a real object and not just slides and photographs. They get to do work on objects.
They spend an afternoon down in the shop, now maybe they seek to restore as work, and maybe all they can do at that stage is stir the glue, you know.
Anybody know how long, if you learn to be a restorer, they let you do nothing but stir the glue? Six months, till you have your heart in it.
Restoring is enormously faced with deep wood, terribly precise, very slow, and so you stir
the glue for a long time because it's got to be the right consistency, or you ruin it.
Put a shattered piece of ceramics together.
Now your glue better be right.
But you can't do it a second time.
You've got one chance, and you better do it in such a way that the cracks don't show.
And then you have to know what consistency the glue has to be and how much to put on.
And you have one of, you can do it once and that's it.
And then you better stir the glue right, you know.
And so that's all that graduate student does for a whole week.
But then he sees that vase and it was in short and now it's a lovely Greek vase again.
And there is a great satisfaction in it.
And he's not going to complain that he's doing menial labor and doesn't get paid for it, on the contrary.
He's been working on a real object and something that was gone is restored and alive again and vibrant.
They always don't ask about allocation. Maybe they don't really think about it.
The organizational one is not the wrong person. The emotional one might be, again, the right one.
Why shall we go to Banco Mercantil number 2 next week and will you please read it and
prepare yourself?
Number 3, I beg you.
Banco Mercantil number 3.
It shouldn't take us long, it's the simple thing.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It's very nice to meet you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
