So manufacturing employees work, not in assemblies, but on assembly lines, five or six percent, one out of twenty, max, even in the end.
But in clerical operations, it's sixty percent in clerical operations.
Here are the claims people in insurance companies.
This assembly is not the way.
There are the key punch operations.
There are the people, the punch card people.
There are the order hands.
And there are the credits and building into that own assembly.
A good deal is assembly of the whole product without any conveyor belt because the product is not heavy enough.
You can hand put it across the desk by hand from one basket or you have a swivel basket.
Any of you ever seen it?
You out basket, you turn it over, it's the next girl's in basket.
You see it?
That's an assembly.
It's basically a conveyor.
Only paper doesn't weigh that much, you don't have that big wrapping paper, it doesn't look very dramatic.
But at 79 workers you can be found in clerical office.
There are no clerical workers alone in production.
Clerical employees are the social, not the sitting in office, they're not in the plant.
It means they don't get their hands through the teeth and the...
Yesterday it meant that they were women.
where women, socially, it was far more expensive.
In fact, it became an expensive thing.
It was the mark of their respect to fight in the country.
So here, this is one way of looking at it.
This assumes that Dr. Perez is right when he says,
the business of the bank is getting money and lending money.
Only partially, yes.
You can't hear your head.
Only partially.
If you had gone back 50 years,
Would you have followed Dr. Perez or not?
There was only one man who followed him.
In the entire world banking world.
Do you know who he was?
He was the only one who followed him.
And only Martin.
Otherwise, not only was Perez deceptive of every banker,
but he was a very accurate statement.
Ah, because, basically,
to go back to the 50s and 90s,
who used the bank?
A business community.
If you had worked for the Claremont Colleges in 1925, or for said senior citizen retirement,
or for whatever the predecessor would have been of the lofty some of you worked for,
how would you have gotten paid if you had a bank account?
In the 19th century, there was the company town and the company store,
both were grossly abused, and employees were not paid in cash but were given credit in the company's
door. Ever heard this? And state after state, the great, the first great age, the equivalent
to Ralph Nader in the 1880s was the crusade against payment in credit. The anti-trucking
And the trucking roads were a great enemy of the bad workers as a result of Delaware's
depleting the anti-trucking roads, the only state of the Union.
Hardly because the Luqmans established an independent bank for them.
In fact, they decided to enlighten various unimportant Enlightenment philosophers, scientists,
and enlightened ideas, and one of them was, in those days, was called the hero.
Anybody ever heard of the zero?
The bank account, anybody know who invented it?
By the name.
Where would he like it to start?
Zero was language.
Start Italian.
And most enlightened came out of the Florence of the house, the branch of the house.
It was the testing.
It was the test market of the enlightened.
There was a big enough so that results were meaningful.
And yet small enough so that you could control it.
It was the equivalent of Denver or Fresno or Oshkosh.
The hero is an infant, largely getting the landlords and workers until you've got the
postal hero.
And it was a European way of getting payments in which the paying was not under the thumb
of the CEO.
You had an independent authority that protected the city council, that is certainly one of
the great problem was that the small businessman of 1820 with the companies who were into a cash
freeze dipped into the accounts of his employees to finance himself then he went bankrupt and
developed back again and again and again one of the more common and he removed those accounts
but it also gave also made it possible for people to have a little money without having cash under
It was too much of a temptation for things involved, not so significant, you know, the idea.
And of course, Florence took what had been a commercial idea of the economy, popularized it.
And so Delaware, with the DuPont, with the strong ties that DuPont had to the European Enlightenment,
had thought it was, in effect, was a non-governmental deal.
the banks in Delaware for open employees, and so the trucking laws were defeated.
But every other state had them, and you had to repeal them, or at least get to the point where you disregard them,
before you could really put paychecks into a checking account, or paychecks.
You had to get a court ruling that to give an employee a check
was not a violation of the answer trucking laws, which I think was.
But people also didn't have the most popular site to find it in comfort for their lives when you find it in fields of rice or novel.
On Friday evening, their wives went to the plant gate.
They swear they had to give out of the plant their money in their pockets and to get the men home without the stuff that had happened.
and that he was, you know, he didn't have any kind of services or businesses, and they were very limited.
There were hearings for businesses, but mostly, you know, there was no federal remuneration,
but the Czech hearings were for banks, not for businesses.
And the New York City Bank had a monopoly on national checks.
It was a correspondent bank, very lucrative.
And if the Chase Bank took you on, the Correspondence Bank,
you had a tremendous question asked of us
because you pay a check in three days or four and a half
weeks to find out whether the check you got from their
customer who found you or not.
And on the other hand, the Chase charged cancer.
You still see on government checks
you get the notation that no bank is allowed
to charge a fee for handling it.
And that's the remnant of this.
And so, the banking business is getting savings, savings of individuals, lending, and all the
mechanisms, and what was the money, and who does the best job in traditional banking?
Who gets the largest cost of its savings, banking, and back into production?
The Japanese.
In other words, the Japanese get 98% of the savings, we get about 40%, the Germans get
about 70%.
Now, we have the English abortion.
That doesn't mean that our savings do not get used, but there are so many other savings
taxes.
Savings and loans also.
Investors go to the stock exchange, bypasses the banking.
In Japan, everything goes to the Congress Bank.
In Germany, practically, all the money that goes directly, only the mortgage money, farm
credit.
Farm credit goes to the bank.
In this country, the only part of the country, the farm credit goes to the bank.
In the rest of the country, it's going bank, farm credit.
So the banking system here in Germany is the largest, half a dozen parallel, some of them
completely bypassed, and then changed with directly, that's why the appearance of the
individual investors is very old.
For businesses, banks, one service is, why do you have your bank account, your personal, where you have it, what do we need?
Why did you pick the bank?
Location.
Location, convenient.
Let me say that one of the things that is American, the public opinion survey,
they ask people, what bank do you bank with?
And more than, I think, 40% have to say, let me look at my checkbook.
It's that bank at the north, but they did not pick a bank before.
But they're all insured by the FDIC, aren't they?
Anybody really pick a bank because their checkbook's up there.
I'll tell you who the bank is.
They do come here at the end of the day.
The horse of Little Hill, Stambles, Bank of America, United California Bank of America.
Show me your checkbook.
Little Boy's Tito.
Then they go to the bank, the color of the check matches my list.
You know, but that is not really the kind of customer the banks are having in the city.
In Kamloops they have no choice, there ain't no other.
They're in their college now, why do they have to do it?
But I don't think that we have 6,000 students here, what have you,
as all of them have a local bank account.
that social combined banking does not make the difference
because one of them can add in to the stock market.
Today, it would be very different.
Now, the only question is whether the bank
gets paid for what the customer really considers.
You may have an institution in the American bank.
This one is down in Columbia, wherever it is.
It's not there yet, but it's here in this country.
You may have a situation in which the banks essentially finance what the customers really consider.
By an increasingly cheap lesson to get paid for handling money, in which no bank has a competitive advantage.
But frankly, all banks tell you that they give you, when you leave the loan, they do better than the next one.
99% of all loans are going to be given by filling out a checklist which is identical for all numbers, all American banks.
If it isn't, you'll hear from the bank examiner of the control of the currency in a hell of a hurry.
Do we have anything in attendance? Oh, you are. You know what I mean.
That 800 billion syndicate, you know, for that short-term loan on North Sea Oil,
99 years production loan, which is now considered commercial banking,
that is not something every bank can do, I'm glad to say.
But how large a part of banking is that?
There's export credit you want for Venezuela.
That depends on how much you have already lent to Venezuela.
And that credit officer doesn't decide. There is a mechanical formula, which is loan committed back home. And in Venezuela, we go that far and no further. And that loan officer fills out the check sheet. And that's a perfectly good loan to shipment of taxes to Venezuela. But we have too much in Venezuela, so he can't give it.
And if he's sexy, it doesn't work out. Even if he don't have anything in Venezuela, he can't give it. And what he does is he sells, but he doesn't make a loan. He sells the relationship.
uh the services in thinking you would talk to the young people who travel for the commercial bank
to get their own they sell the lockbox here because that is the service they don't sell
them because they have nothing to offer that the next boy or girl to come in can't offer
justice but the citizens differentiate and yet the banks don't get paid now they've all reached
to the point where they cost the service. Banks have learned in the last ten years to
cost customers, cost them, but the job is not yet done very well because it's not there.
Well, at least they become conscious of the fact, but they don't charge for it. And yet
that's what the customers, customers, the private, the private, how many entities, locations,
the banks, they're the same services, don't you, as an individual customer. They're all
I have to show the girl how to do it, because every time, the first time she has done it,
she always says, I know.
But I know how to do it.
I've done it often enough.
So I can show her.
The product is changed.
And maybe what's already changed, you need to change the product.
And then you know what you said is wrong.
And that has to be under the control.
the product is changed, and maybe what Perez is telling you,
you need to keep using the product.
And then you know what he says is wrong,
and that has to be under the control of the bankers.
You better go over there.
I can give a number to Chris as it came, basically,
in the relationship between, for its strategy and structure,
because this is what Perez is essentially saying.
based on the analogy with the manufacturing,
the production process in manufacturing.
And then the question is,
not whether he's writing his organization or not,
but he's writing his basic strategy,
seeing banking as a business.
Look, these things I know nothing,
nothing to write on.
I mean, so is the shape.
I don't know what to do with it.
Because I don't... Did you get fed?
If you got fed, you don't need it.
Let me ask you, those of you who didn't, what do you do with that food?
Throw it in the corner.
Yeah, probably going to be offered up to our lady or whatever.
I have nothing to do with it anymore.
I gave you the water.
The best practice in the house, white wine.
So, basically this is what you have to decide on.
Definition, what is the business of banking, and if you go with the traditional banking definition,
which a lot of bankers still maintain, and maybe you like it, that banking is money management.
Banking is the economy's circulatory system for money and credit, for the allocation of resources.
If that's how you define banking, then Perez is quite right.
Much as he may annoy the bankers by saying, look, what I do has nothing to do with it.
the cost center, and then basically the fact that you have 70% of your employees,
that just shows you that you don't know how to manufacture.
The point is, you see, fundamentally you need to have large parties of people
in this kind of encompassment. The point is, you aren't smart enough to do it any other way.
Being slightly smarter than the average human being would never fit away, you know, in this elaborate, clerical operation.
But you just aren't smart enough.
And you have to strengthen your banking, your banking, by freeing your banker from the chores.
They can devote their attention to all their twin business of getting money into the bank and getting money out of the bank.
And all the things you have to do, the process data and the massage, all that all costs.
And basically, there's nothing to do with your business.
Or better, we are doing this because we stand in the same relationship with surgery.
surgery, that sterilizing instrument. That's where the bodies are in surgery. That's where you have three nurses who want surgery.
It's a bit of sterilizing, it's a bit of counseling. But this is not surgery.
And it's quite likely not the surgery that's counseling. It makes damn sure somebody does it.
Not once or three times, because the malpractice is against him and not against the surgery.
And to make Sam sure that they are sterilized, or he takes pictures, but he will not do it.
He has to be done, and Sam will.
If you look at him on an operating room, he operates in a place no longer controlled.
He doesn't even know anymore what he is doing.
He gets paid $400 a week if he gets paid a lot, and he gets paid $400 a minute.
and eat cheese, and surgery is not sterilizing, so you better have them.
That's one way of looking at it.
But you can look at this case also, and maybe this is no longer or not,
maybe you have a situation in commercial banking today in this country,
and increasingly in developed countries,
Where banking is the main circulatory system of the economy, but what you circulate is no longer money-worthy.
And then you have a crisis, one of the real crises of the business.
Condemned you to not getting paid for what is real value to the company.
So that increasingly you get paid by byproducts.
Because then you have no way of controlling more and more value.
They don't get paid. Anybody know the elementary rule about what is value to the customer?
Customer's actions, their products and services are at moat.
You never get whatever you get for free, cannot be emptied away.
And let me say this is very unpopular.
I was saying this was Sigmund Freud's great client in the Vienna office days
that he said that there would be any medical community
and he said that in this charge for psychotherapy,
patients won't get well because they won't have teaching.
And here we are, all those Yiddish are most of them,
85% of them, a great majority, really people who,
if they hadn't lost their faith, had become rabbis.
They wanted to be healers.
And the great tradition of the Jewish leader
There is not, in fact, the ones I knew when I was a child,
because all his friends, the men who put him in business when he came back from Paris,
the great men of the Eastern Eastern Diagnostics,
the father of psychosomatic medicine at the time I died,
and agnostic, whatever, grandfather, whatever, great-grandfather, whatever, and so on.
Never sent him away. He's my husband.
But the only thing, the wife was not allowed to tell her husband,
and the patient didn't say, nor was she allowed ever to send him back.
It was time, I think, when she may feel,
then if you haven't paid your bills, I'm not going to take your wages.
But the old man never, I think.
Or at least if he did, he probably did.
He got royalties, scholarships, and he made his way to go to Paris.
And then he bought the price in 15.
that, at least in psychotherapy, customers, you get what they pay for.
A broken left is human if you don't see it, but a broken right you do not.
And what really hurts of being in this position was not the choice, it has to be appreciated.
You might be right. Not really.
But customers, you see, one learns that you are quite willing to give a lecture for free
No, you're quite willing to charge the monarchy and donate it to charity.
But no religion.
Only because this one thing about an initiative is going to make any effort to get testimony into the world.
No, no, no.
Yes, it is a sad lesson in many ways.
But it also proves the wisdom of what every religious teacher at the moment said.
that you don't give charity to do good to others, you are owed not for what you do to others, but what you do for yourself.
And then it doesn't make any difference if it is of any value. It's irrelevant.
So, maybe one of the most dangerous things to do in the future is to get paid for something that isn't really valuable to you.
Especially if you are historically locked into this, it is extremely difficult to change.
Your customers expect that you make your money out of the margin between what you pay for money you get in and what you get for money you lend out.
That margin has been shrinking and shrinking and shrinking towards disappearing.
You have to have the typical cost of any effort in that the cost of the
And then you get the advanced economies of scale, and you know what I'm talking about?
Then you go up to 70%, that's your option, that's where you have the best relationship
cost and regime, and then you push above it and you've got to go up much, much faster.
These upskills are a ring, and you get the last, well maybe it's the last 20% on which,
or the last 30% of our worship, some efforts the last 40% of our worship,
one of the reasons why our school costs are so high.
It's that probably when you talk about schools with the existing technology of this,
that often the point is around 60% of the fourth grade.
Up to that, the effort needed until we can improve.
You go above the next 40%, and it becomes increasingly harder and more expensive to read.
The literature master was perfectly happy with French literature at that time, he learned anything.
That was expensive, it was a lot.
And 40% for that was easy and was very cost-beneficial, it was very good.
And 60% down to the image length, back to the range of 100, and that's terribly expensive.
but then you get up to 60% you get in the break of your case, or in the same category.
Then you get more and more cases where there is a phenomenon of not being in the main center of distribution.
You have to go to the hospital, and I think that will help everybody.
But you can do it at the hospital, I do.
And so you have set some pointers.
There's the optimal point. Beyond the optimal, you have the maximum point.
But beyond the maximum, you're actually loose. And you're undoubtedly going to get paid for your backup.
Beyond the optimal. And not only are the banks today,
from the outside point, quite clearly trying to lift the fact that they can't offer.
The most expensive fee is non-money. Money is always free, for anything.
You have to give alarm clocks to somebody who opens an account.
How long does it take before even the reason that the German high school sophomore
catch on to the point of the game and open that five dollar account or fifty dollar account
at bank branch number one, get the alarm clock, close it after two days,
take the 15 bucks, go across the street and get the Q2 dollars, and keep on doing it.
In general, you don't have to do it. Count it in practice.
That's why all these executive ranges are so obvious,
in order to deliver the tax credits.
It's just a few pennies away from that medium set of tax credits
where you pay the non-money that owns them.
all right it may be worth the tight satisfaction of not being taxed for it i need to know man in
my contempt for the tax collection there is a point beyond which it doesn't change
all of our solutions are well beyond that you don't pay five dollars to get the six taxes
to save 20 cents, but that makes very little. But the psychic satisfaction may be great.
So when you get paid for by-curses rather than for your main course, you are in danger.
That's always typical of a transition. And maybe what the banking system is keeping these people
is not deep, but it is a circulatory system for these kind of information,
What you call services are essentially information.
A credit card is an information card, not a credit card.
And the protection, we protect you.
You don't have to carry cash in order to protect your doorkeeper.
The Bank of America takes that with.
Let's have an exception.
These are all, essentially, services having to do with the information stream of the modern economy.
And the banks are not getting paid for that.
All that we have to do is, anyhow, we might as well give it to Professor Perez.
The answer to overhead is not to absorb overhead, but to cut back overhead.
So there you have it. The question is, is Dr. Perez right?
like in Colombia or Mexico, wherever he is, he may still be right.
I understand here, without him learning.
Currently you see that those bands that are holding the headbands are becoming
what officially we don't have in the national bands.
We now have maybe how many national bands?
They are also the biggest.
But it's not that they are national because they are the biggest,
it's the other way around.
because it seems that despite all our very peculiar legislation and regulation, the country has become one economy and therefore requires one banking system.
Our regulation came in in 1837, by and large, when the country was not one economy, when it did not require a banking system. Even then it was very dubious economically.
But today our regulation is weakens the currency economy, it weakens the banking system, and therefore you have what in effect is a national system, certainly for business, and not just for business, not just, you're thinking of Fortune 500, hell no, that's not what the young loan officers from the Bank of America, who traveled out of the Bank of America after in Chicago and New York, they are not there for me.
All of them go to Standard Oil and New Zealand to Exxon, but not one of them expects anything much from it.
Only because the Federal Exxon doesn't do business with the 28-year-old, Stanford, MBA, fresh out of college, who hold on to the other.
That's not the reaction that we're saying. But the 60, 70, 80 million dollars, that's what we're asking.
We have been doing very rapidly a national banking business that's not based on having an office in it.
We're doing business in it.
Well, that's the system of how many banks does the country actually need?
And we have the viables and competitors.
They're very big banks.
But how is it?
Well, look, here is Europe across the ocean.
Slightly more population.
A slightly smaller economy.
There are about a dozen European, many more local and regional, but there are three German banks, and two French banks, and three English banks, and basically one Italian bank.
There are nine regional banks, another second tier, two in Sweden, two in Holland, three in Switzerland, one in Spain, and that's it.
The European Bank in Europe is very strong in the national identity.
You are not going to go directly to active positions,
but you are going to go directly to the financials alone.
And you might think that the American Bank,
the European Bank,
very strong position with the American companies in Europe, and a million positions with the
non-American ones, and that is proving that the American of Europe, you know, some do
this, some do the American way. But that's the banking system. All the rest of them,
you know, some of them do it very nicely. They don't come. And it's the Bayerische
The Irish and French banks in Munich, it appears tomorrow that nobody is going to be able to be upset.
Nobody will note to the bank that the Bank of America will have to buy it.
I hope the Bank of America will not say to us that never.
You cannot count on intelligence. You can't count on it.
One is intelligence, the other one is disease.
And so, like the banks that could give you a note,
Swiss banks could give you with nothing.
more than a bank.
Look, they are very important,
for example, taxes.
Otherwise, in the bank,
you have to pay for it.
So, here in the continent,
roughly two hours,
you get by with the first
year of making 10,
the second year of 10,
and you get by very nicely,
and it's not under-banked.
Nobody has suffered from a lack of
banking, so obviously
You have great competition, no lack of it.
So that would be sensible, it is sensible.
And the addictions, not legally, not officially, but actually,
from the economic logic, but that is increasingly linked
and not from the economic front line,
and I'm being able to give you a two-day flow,
which I hope for the pleasure of some of you,
you know what I'm talking about, if you don't forget it.
and he's addicted to it.
So maybe the banks of this country, Dr. Perez,
will no longer accept it.
That's one way of looking at it.
Is there another way to learn from it?
It's a very interesting thing to do.
The basic problem of the relationship between
all of these countries.
Most of the things you hear about is very mild.
How many of you have been in this capacity by default?
I don't know how many of you are threatened by autism.
Have you seen anybody?
I know a lot, but I wish you would.
Every time I stand in line at the supermarket,
I look at the moron, you know,
and he's doing it with a casualty.
The thought has to do without one.
I really want to be a better way.
I want to be able to have every time I look at him.
Human beings are very poor and don't give that much of a hand.
But if you have to do it on the worst way, you have human beings who come to work and send over kids.
That's the worst way, because then you set up, that's what you're forced to do.
And most of the things you hear about the impact of technology are popular.
What people do not realize is that they change.
All of you know that in the 20s and 30s and 40s, the American textile industry moved from the ring to the pipe.
So that is your official answer.
You know when you really move?
It's that you had in the sense you left here in the sense you
mind
subsistence
is a chronological thing.
The section you say it on
means a chronological thing.
It's subtle.
It's very ordinary.
Probably
it wasn't very long after our remote answers
came out of the scenes and the cold
and the cold temperature environment.
I, from wearing that,
