So we had a technological change, which came very early.
And that technology lasted thousands of years,
still in Europe in the 11th century or so.
The spinning wheel came in, which totally revolutionized
this social life.
Because up to then, spinning and weaving
have all been sexed.
It's the most human-working sex story.
And historically, ours is the first period in human history
which had the dubious idea, historically,
of the sexes working together.
And it's dubious because there are two major bonds
in human life.
One is the family bond, which is sex, sex-based.
The other one is the work bond.
And both are equally important.
You see, whenever you have a society
with a heavy preponderance of Yankee,
the sex bonds looks like it's more important
to be more heated, and the pendulum swings back
and you get the more equal population distribution.
The work bond always comes to the fore.
The sex bond is of primary importance at the mating age.
The work bond becomes of primary importance
as people get older.
Larger because it is so much more in the individual control.
The family bond is very larger biologically with him.
All right, eventually, maybe you will
have asexual reproduction of babies,
but you're not quite close yet.
You still need a woman's womb for a embryo to grow to maturity.
Test tubes don't do it.
And therefore your family is sexist, whether you like it or not.
And at the same time,
FPAs, when they're young, are defenseless and need somebody to look after them.
And so that means that in turn, you need somebody to look after the family
if you're having a sex world.
And you can, today we think we can dispense with them.
I'm not sure we would.
I'm an old feminist, in case anybody had any doubts.
Not sure you would.
But certainly, never before in human history
has the attempt been made to have the sexes work together.
Because the work bond is one that may always be
from the battle of the sexes, the war of the sexes.
There have always been two separate bonds,
unless you could forge the work bond into the family.
If you could do it as on the family farm,
or in the craftsman's shop, you did it.
And it strengthens the family bond.
But if where you couldn't do it, you're always carefully
separated.
Women on a primitive society till the field
and throw the yams.
The men on the Polynesian island built the boats and go fishing.
They are equals.
They are not the same sexes in the real subordination
of one thing.
But that's it. And that is historically almost the way work was organized. And what we are doing these days is a very bold attempt at, you know, social innovation.
The returns are not in there. We'll give it another hundred years to see whether it works or not. But it's certainly new.
And spinning, as long as we know, and in every civilization we know of, was woman's work.
You go into the high andes of Peru, in many ways social organization of the Inca was very different from what it was.
But you see the women there, up there with the yamas or the alpacas, the herds, winding the yama world around the world, spinning rocks and this stuff.
And you look at it, make ways, and it's women who spin.
And you read Homer, and it's women who spin.
And the spinning to this stuff is very unproductive, too, very slow.
It has one great advantage, you can do it without paying attention.
It's like knitting, in that sense, you know.
In every woman's college, the class knits.
And when you say to her that you've done this practice, she says, on the contrary, it frees my mind. She's right. You don't have to think like that. All right, maybe that sock you knit for your boyfriend is then for a nine-footer. But still, after all, he's your boyfriend, you better wear it.
So, and spinning you don't have to pay attention, the monotonous repetitive hand skills, twirling and twisting.
But it's very unproductive, and you needed a great many spinners to keep one weaver going, especially after the loom.
And we know that there were looms around 1800 BC because we have representation on Egyptian
and Egyptian of that, the old dynasty of looms.
There are genuine looms in the shuttle.
It is still moved by hand, but it's a shuttle.
It carries the thread and it goes by the way you adjust.
You actually put the yarn in so you don't, the pattern is prefigured.
You don't have a jacquard card yet that has the weight of the Japanese, invented in around 1500.
And the French reinvented it around 1800 something.
But basically you have a jacquard card.
And therefore it's basically an automatic loom.
That goes on pretty fast and uses up an incredible amount of yarn.
And so the spinners were quite unproductive.
And we were highly productive.
And we were male and spinning female.
But also because spinning did not
require much intellectual attention.
We were always required extreme concentration.
Spinning was around spinning you could organize
the cultural activities of the home, whether spinning was a woman's activity,
because women were seen as the educational, the civilizing agent,
or because the world became the civilizing agent, because it is the spinning we don't know.
But spinning enabled them, where you have the mistress of the house,
educated her daughters and her maid, and civilized them,
where you took care of the visit for and the guests,
read the Homeric epics and you find it very strong.
And it was economically quite unproductive, culturally highly productive.
And then around 1180 with Provence,
the spinning wheel came in
and it totally changed the economic relationships between the sexes.
The word spinning wheel, that's a woman who is not married,
In other words, she does not need a man for economic survival, and she is respectable.
The only women before that who didn't have a permanent man were definitely not.
Couldn't afford to be.
And because the spinster was so incredibly productive,
from needing several hundred spinners to keep one weaver going,
That ratio you find in, I don't know whether it's the Odyssey or the Iliad, which tells you actually, that in the Odyssey, it's Nausicaa, and the way Odyssey is reported was between and there are all those maids and daughters and hundreds of them to keep six weavers going.
The ratio was several hundred to one. And suddenly one spinster produced enough yarn to keep three weavers going. And it totally changed the social relationship.
And don't ask me because we don't know whether the shift of Christian worship from God in His glory, the Pantocrator, the Byzantine, the Syrian God in His glory, to the worship of the Virgin Mary is a result of the spinning wheel or the other way around.
that we don't know, but they're simultaneous.
And also, you suddenly have something
that never existed before on Earth.
You have a love poetry that is not sexual, but love
with woman, that sees the woman as an object of adoration,
not just as a sex object, unheard of before.
Suddenly, and that's the spinning wheel.
And you may see that the shift to the worship of the woman,
not in the fertility gardens, that's all,
but the woman came first,
and the spinning wheel is the consequence,
or you may go the other way,
and nobody could prove it,
and it's not very important,
that would change the parallel.
And then came the 18th century,
and the 18th century is automatically
changed that relationship.
and you again had a little more productive than the spinning wheel.
The spindle returned to the distal, but then automated distal, mechanized distal.
The spindle is now a descendant of the spinning wheel, of the distal.
And so, first the spinning wheel needed a great many attendants,
and you again had the weaver more productive than the spinner farmer.
You've got factory organizations, the textile industry started.
One of the reasons why you had the factory was that the cottage industry was organized around the spinning wheel and the spinning home.
And we had the technology that cut the cost and we could not do it in the cottage.
Because you had grandmother and mother spinning.
The men were out doing farming.
The women produced the yarn which was sold to weavers who were craftsmen.
and basically you had a human organization in which men and women were separate,
and suddenly with the new spinning technology of the automatic loom,
the spinner was again subordinate, was again unproductive of the wheel and you.
And the competition in this way with the parallel matriarchal and patriarchal organizations
socially became an enemy. And you had to move to break the social. You see, nothing becomes more basic to people, to their sense of justice and injustice, than economic relationship.
All of you consider it immoral if farmers make more than teachers. Let me say this as in this country, we consider it immoral and thank God don't do anything about it.
I don't know what's more important, but occasionally you get results from a drama, but also, let
me say, you cannot take in unless you can eliminate, but your kind of assertion that
More people have died of dysentery than of ignorance.
Cannot be documented.
And I would consider this part of AFL-CIO propaganda.
But there is a fact to reestablish the social relationship
in which the weaver was the king, the dyer came next,
and the spinning remained momentary.
And the pace gained expression.
And in the 1920s, you have the coming up,
the fully automated spindle, where essentially one spinning
operator can run 10,000 spindles, 20,000 spindles.
Because all he or she does is interfere
when something goes wrong, the spindle is fully open.
OK, once in a while, it gets powered up.
Then you have to go in and freeze it off.
And once in a while, but other than that,
you just walk up and down.
And in fact, today, you don't even do that.
You have an instrument for it to light up tomorrow
and go strong.
And suddenly, you could, when using an oil refiner,
it's fully automated.
It's not getting more and more.
And suddenly the stimulus became unproductive.
And the New England ExoFactory couldn't,
you couldn't introduce, you see,
one of the most difficult things is to change
social relationships as to the different kinds of work.
And it makes no difference whether you're talking
of highly educated people 70 years before
The medical profession accepted the fact that in modern surgery, the key figure is the anesthesiologist, and in many ways it hasn't accepted it yet, because traditionally the surgeons, and in most routine operations, and most operations are routine, don't get carried away by heart transplant.
They are fortunately very rare compared to tonsillectomies. Fortunately. In the tonsillectomy, the surgeon can only do half. We totally wouldn't deny that the anesthesiologist is the one in control of the patient.
The only way you have surprises is there, and now there shouldn't be any in the consults.
And yet, this new profession hasn't accepted it yet. Very hard to do.
And you all know that in your organization you have the problem of what you do with your data processing people.
You know, because you can only see a management lab or a professional lab when your data processing people are needed.
They are high-rate technicians. They are a new third category. They don't cut it. They are in trouble. They are in trouble.
And they all want to be executive vice presidents but not have anything to do with running the business which force them.
But they serve their own golden calf. They are the monsters. That's all they want to do. And they need it.
And they are not professionals. Professionals, the output of a professional becomes part of, you know, here is a researcher in the lab. He comes out with a new pharmaceutical product.
There are a lot of physicians. Only he works not in a managerial, but in a professional capacity.
And here is the tax accountant, the viewer, and he sits in on top management and says you can't do that. You can only do it this way. Now you need the processing man who is not sitting on top management.
and doesn't want to value it. Nothing with war anymore.
And yet, anybody know when we first had that problem?
What the one American military innovation is.
We have in military affairs been unimaginative.
Whenever we tried to innovate the
flat on our faces basically a civilian nation is basic view of the way that the
martial virtues never be our heroic ballads in this cowboys and not be nice
you know and the one innovation is the single the only American invention
Engineers are not. Engineers, anybody know what the practice was in the French in the early 18th century or what?
Actually, the idea was then that the French actor would make a hundred years of history.
But he made that proposal. That's what he was hired by the French king.
He died in France. To develop the Corps of Engineers.
But that was meant simply as fortification.
But the engineer as a part of the support for the fighting man, building roads and bridges and siege instruments, that was the French invention of the 18th century. Tremendous impact.
The Signal Corps of America, early in the 19th, early 20th century,
Elio Rook, Teddy Roosevelt, Secretary of War, or rather, McKinley, invented it.
Largely because the telegraphy went around, the telephony came out there.
And it wasn't the engineers and the engineers could handle it.
The engineers, just like 20 years later when the tank came up,
You know how the, finally the English got their command to accept the tank.
Anybody know that story?
Sir John Armstrong, the cavalry general, that he finally agreed to the tank being used in April.
On condition that every one of them would be followed by a horse.
True story.
The horses didn't live very long.
And then Sir John gave up.
First, it was quite obvious that those damn tanks couldn't
possibly run, and then you would need a horse to keep on.
And the engineers had very much the same attitude
about the signal core.
They were really good at it.
And so the signal core was in the engineers, but it didn't work.
Then a legal horse fell back on a civil war expedient
where the telegraphers had been taken out
of the engineers' .
In fact, it's a signal.
Because it couldn't be handled within the existing staff.
That's our first technician organization.
And sure, nobody goes into the signal corps that really
wants to make a career in the army.
You go into the signal corps because you are in love
with woofers and what have you.
If you are in the army with Frank Magnuson,
what's the head of the signal corps now?
A three-star general?
Probably, yeah.
Because you have to have something.
He's never going to be chief of staff, don't kid yourself.
He doesn't want to be, he would be desperately unhappy.
All he wants is to play around with electronics.
And secondly, he's only a three-star general,
so that a captain can be promoted to major.
Basically, these are technicians.
Very important, but they are not part of the command staff.
They're technicians.
And so are your data processing people in your building.
They want to play around with their computer.
They want to give you the wrong information in real time.
Because that's what you asked for.
Unfortunately, yes.
They couldn't realize what you do with it.
Just try to tell them,
I already have five rooms full of computer printouts I never look at.
Don't give me a sixth room.
That's totally irrelevant.
That's your hang-up.
They now know how to give you all the things you don't want to know very fast.
And so we are getting, we should get it, because that panic that more and more of this cannot produce the unnecessary even faster.
Okay fine. There are technicians, highly technicians, and we don't know about them.
Because they are not professionals. Professionals, they are part of the business.
We are not part of the management. These people are not part of the business.
You know, here's that hospital with the hard lung machine, and the two engineers who really
run it, because these are physicists or electronic engineers, get paid very well, exceedingly
well.
But I don't think they sit in on the staff conference at all, nor would they want to,
nor do they really know whether in there, you know, the surgeons are cutting up a dog
or a human being.
They couldn't care less. They served their machine. That's the characteristic of a technician.
He serves the tool. A professional uses tools. A technician serves a manager of users.
So here in our case, a group of technicians is emerging and dislocating, if there is such a word, I don't know.
must be. The traditional social structure. Our friends here, what bank are you? Security Pacific or Western Bank? Western Bank Corporation. All right. If you sit down, today it's over, but 20 years ago, I ran a, was one of three or four people who ran the advanced management program for the Chase Manhattan. It just merged two banks with totally different traditions.
They still have marriage, another matter.
They've gone through a ceremony of marriage,
and they're now engaged in preliminary courting rights.
They never got much beyond those, as far as I can tell you.
But, and if they had any management program,
which New York University ran for them down in Kentucky,
It was very impressive. All the ones who had come to work for the bank, this is New York City, this is primarily the Bank of Manhattan, which was the intellectual bank in New York, because it was the Jewish Bank of New York.
Chase was strictly Protestant, with one Armenian castle.
Bank of Manhattan was strictly Jewish, with one Roman castle.
And the merge, you can just imagine how easy it was.
And anybody, even the Bank of Manhattan, who had gone to work before World War II,
had come to work at age 16, maximum.
And anybody who came in after the boy
had come into the college building.
And they immediately sent him over to NYU to get his MBA.
There was a total change.
And let me say, what made the murder possible
was that that cleavage turned out
to mean more than the cleavage between WASPs and Jews
between the Chase Bank tradition of banking for their big manufacturing
industries and the Bank of Manhattan tradition of banking for commerce.
The age cleavage turned out to be more important. You had enemies in commerce.
Nothing that unifies as much as a common enemy. That brought the merger finally to a
The young guards, all those years of formal education, organized against the older ones for only new banking and nothing else.
But even with the young guards, there was beginning to be a dysfunctional tradition.
You know, at 16, those 16-year-olds were already old for this, because they were forced to wait for 16 by a change in the laws of the state of New York around 1925 that raised the school-eating age from 14 to 16.
The older ones, when they were 14,
the leading figure in New York finance
and maybe in American finance since the 1930s
was Sidney Weinberg.
Anybody ever hear of him?
Who was he?
Well, why was he the leading figure, do you know?
He had the biggest vendor writing in Richard Banking
House, which was Goldman Sachs in those days, and still is.
But he was a senior columnist at the time.
Secondly, he had been the advisor of the American president since Mick Roosevelt's administration, in one area, the personnel area.
Especially with World War II, when World War II broke out, Sidney Weinberg became the recruitment officer for the war effort.
as he stayed on as liberal for Truman, and for Eisenhower,
and still for John Kennedy for 20 years, or 25 years, 20 years.
And he recruited anybody in the top echelon in the World War II,
not the professional politicians.
But whether you're talking about Bob Sherwin in the Office
of War Informations, if they're right,
or you're talking of Nils Snuf, Sears Broga,
or you're talking of Donovan in OSS and Warstein and Neuer, every single one of them was recruited
by Sidney Weinberg, who had an unbelievable acquaintanceship with the upper middle and
upper ranges of the American establishment, who had also had an incredibly good nose and
was absolutely incorruptible in the sense
that he had no interest.
He never pushed anybody because he liked them,
because he was a friend.
Whereas Felix Sankratow very rapidly lost his position
because Felix Sankratow liked people, pushed his friends,
pushed people because he approved of their opinion.
In other words, he credited himself
as a basement officer almost immediately.
If you want to have credit in placing people,
you look at what the task requires
and not at what you're like.
And you're totally objective and cold, though,
and you have no friends.
And then you have influence and power, but you don't.
And since the Manberg News, they're very wrong.
It is just a revelation sitting with that in control of us.
They're very rarely seen.
He had gone to work at age 14, a Jewish boy from Brooklyn, because the rabbi and his son-in-law knew somebody who knew somebody who knew somebody who knew somebody, so he went and got the job.
At age 14, as a runner delivering securities, very delicate, a 14-year-old kid could deliver securities in New York without being robbed, you know, I'm right.
Ann Rose to be head of and 80% owner of Goldman Sachs and when he left, they replaced him with four people.
This is three sons and one nephew. And the story goes, all three sons had PhDs and the nephew had an addition in MBA.
And when he was being asked, Sidney, why does it take four people to replace you?
He said, because in those 10 years when I learned the business, they were sitting on the school bench.
And then you can never catch up if you don't learn it early.
He had a point.
But then it was to be 60. That was already the right old age.
Then you had to jump to 23 or 22.
That already changed the social structure.
But even then, if you went around those Chase bankers
who had a college degree, who came in after the war
and after the GI Bill of Rights, they all started as tellers.
Are you old enough to remember that time or not?
I don't think you are.
They started as tellers in a branch.
What was it?
And there you met the public.
There you saw banking.
What was the next step, you know?
Because there, you know, you couldn't do much damage.
And you saw the whole bank.
And then you went into lending.
And there were exceptions, but, and now you can't do it.
A, because they don't become available until they're 23
or so, so that's all .
But the bookkeeping is now data processing.
That's highly technical.
And writing a legible hand and having a quill pen
no longer qualifies you.
In my days, it did.
That's why, thank God, I didn't stay a bookkeeper very long.
I had neither.
Certainly not the legible hand.
I might have been able to acquire a quill pen.
But I didn't have the legible hand.
I would still be a bookkeeper.
And so, and you learned banking, you saw it, the whole banking, it's all in the books.
And then you went out. It's a great majority state, of course, and then suddenly data processing comes in.
And in total, it cuts across. And that is, you have a social dislocation.
And you have to go out and go in this country, but in this country you are lucky,
that social dislocation coincide with an educational object.
They're saying, they're setting their mind up
that they wouldn't go to work at age 14.
They would certainly be and that,
but they would certainly stay in high school.
You don't have to tell your bright boy
who certainly would stay in high school.
And they would certainly, even from a poor family,
go to college.
They don't have no choice.
What I did at that age can't be done anymore.
I decided that I had sat long enough on my rear end.
I went to work as an apprentice clerk.
I can't do it anymore.
Society won't let me.
Today I would have had to go to waste four years in college,
being very unhappy because I just didn't enjoy school
at all, at the receiving end.
Never learned a darn thing until I began to teach.
But today I have no choice.
And so it is the data processing revolution in banking
destroyed an existing career ladder,
and the ladder has become untenable anyhow.
So basically, not much socialism.
But just put yourself in the front-of-the-mill country
situation, where you are in Mexico or Colombia,
where you have, at the day, the situation of 1920
in this country, where the school-leaving age is being
raised to 16, and went for a bright ambitious boy in Bucaramanga in Colombia or in Puebla in Mexico,
the only way out is to get... Well, how do you get out? You are in a small provincial town, Puebla no longer is,
Tashkent it is. How do you get out? You have to go to work for an organization that is not confined to Tashkent,
Where if you do a good job in Castro, you can put in for a transfer to Mexico City.
It's the only way out there. You don't have any money, you have no influence, you have no family.
You have to find access to a system that gets you out of it, that has a channel.
Well, that is the bank. Very few national institutions in the country have it.
Any of you know Mexico? In every street corner you have got four banks.
A very street corner in Mexico that's beyond having a gas pump.
You have the Banco de la República and the Banco de Comercio and a regional bank, don't you?
Occasionally the fourth street corner is not the bank.
But that already shows that you are in a compound.
If anything else, you have four banks at the street corner.
Each of them having an imposing building.
But one of the oldest tradition of banking is don't try to impose, to impress the customer with your balance sheet.
They can be the balance sheet. Impress them with a facade.
That's the oldest tradition. The biggest building is always a savings bank in every European town.
And that's where they put their money in. And it impresses the customer. It makes it look solid.
look solid. Customers aren't economists. Economists are people who know that the less you invest
in things, the more solid you are. Customers do not know that. So you have to beg banks
to leave. And every one of these banks is the only lead national institution in the
country. Their grocery store is still Mama, Papa, and Rosie. And unless you marry Rosie,
get nowhere. And all right, you don't have to go to university to become a lawyer and it doesn't help you to get the law degree unless you have the connection to get
clients to go into politics. So the bank is your way out. Financial institutions by definition cannot be purely low because finance is a communicating reservoir of
And so it's always been the career ladder for the ambitious in Brighton.
You read American history in 1850, there were three ways for the young ambitious Americans.
One was to become a lawyer, read law, the local law.
Because we in this country did not have a university monopoly on law,
which a Spanish country, however, has had for a while.
Since about 1300, since Bologna imposed this monopoly on the practice of law, and you could not learn it through apprenticeship. Only in Anglo-American countries could you still get it. The other one is the clergy, the ministry.
After the ceremony, the country was banked. General Grant was the banker, not the successful one. And Andy Jackson was the banker. And it was one way to get, use a community for you, for not a national, a regional career to get out of being a farmer or a shopkeeper.
Because it was, by necessity, linked with the whole country, and that is suddenly interrupted by Dr. Perel and his data posts.
Now, in this country, the problem was face-less wage, in fact, almost eliminated by the fact that we couldn't have maintained the traditional career there anyhow.
The kids that became tellers in 1911 went to school and they're no longer available for a teller's job.
Yeah, so that helps with that.
But if you look at Mexico, that's a social problem.
And here's technology creating changing social relationships.
This is the real problem.
It's changing relationships, values.
Suddenly the teller becomes a clerk who gets nowhere.
That's what you have here in Brantford, where these are part-time women who take a job as a teller, don't expect to get any pay.
The last thing they want to is make a career in the Bank of America, because that would take them away from Pomona,
and would force them to move to Fresno, and they have a husband and children here, you know.
And the husband is a cop on the Fairmont police force, and he can't leave because he loses his pension if he does.
That's simple. Yeah, but that's a very different social role. But you can't move from the telestrap into banking because the training position is gone.
The bookkeeper was the training position in this election and it's gone. That's now people who are systems engineers who don't know beans about banking and couldn't care less, by the way,
But know how to run the monster. That's all they want to do, you know.
They couldn't care less whether they print out bank debits or Marty's medical lab data.
They don't know the difference. Or shoe store inventories. Or weather data.
Or astronomical observations. Or moon rocks. They're interested in the fascination of data processing.
And basically most of them probably don't even know that they work for a bank.
They only know that it's a look at the picture.
Otherwise, so these are, that force, that case is what do you do to face that?
In this country, we were lucky, the bank, in the most, that it coincided with an educational shift
which cut off traditional ladders anyhow.
you would have been forced to build new ones, which you have built, more or less, well or more or less badly.
But what do you do in a traditional society, which you don't have,
which the 16-year-old bright boy looks to the institution for access to careers and opportunities and learning,
and can no longer be done?
What do you do? Do you hire them, put them into a telestrap, and then you send them to a company school?
Manco de la República. Exactly that.
Encourage them to go to university? Manco de Comercio, Mexico.
In other words, you have to maintain the access, because it's the only reservoir you have.
But you have to find something to channel the real opportunities.
They are very foolish, sending a fellow to the university to become, in fact, a lawyer.
That's not the right Mexican lawyer, God help you.
I'm from Rwandan banking.
And also, you're in the government service anyhow.
You're not going to stay in private, are you?
So this is the case indeed.
social impact of technology, not because of the things you hear about.
Displacing people, impacting their mind, when you change this traditional relationship.
And traditional relationships are highly emotional, they are bad.
You see, in this country, the relationship between doctor and dentist
is one between the professional and the technician, fundamentally.
When you go to a continental European country, where a dentist has to have an M.D. degree before he can go to dental school,
the relationship is totally different. And then you say, well, look at what dentists do, they don't need an M.D. degree.
We are, essentially, in California. And you bring in dental technicians who can do anything a dentist can do without an M.D. degree.
And you create a social upheaval, because they change values.
And basically the one way societies can handle that is to try to get rid of it.
But what do you do? And we no longer want to go into depth.
Precisely we call it high-grade technical craft work.
High-grade, good craft work.
In modern medicine, we don't do it.
you suddenly have a crisis of social back,
not the new dental technician
that basically an American type dentist
is probably better than the old man,
M.D. who then went for a year to dental school.
And so it's very good if you probably to find
that you have some rare blood disease in your gums,
and that you want your cavities filled.
And that he has never done.
Whereas that fellow out of dental school, that's all he has done for three years, you know.
He's very good at filling cavities and then filling you a partial bridge or what have you.
Because that's all he wants to do and can do.
And if you run into a pathology of the mouse, he sends you someplace else.
But you create a severe social dislocation.
The values, and this is the real problem of innovation, is that it changes the way people relate and their relative position in their own eyes and in society. These are values.
And the relationship between technology and value, expectations, culture, value, is one of the least understood and most crucial areas we have in the period of rapid technological change. That's where you get due resistance to change. It isn't that people resist the two. They resist the socialists.
Okay. I am willing, within, I think you, rather than the victim, anybody else who needs to be taken to any part of the dermatologist and dermatologist?
What case did you speak to?
Oh, one case, actually.
Which one?
All right.
All right.
One case results, okay.
I wish you, please, look at the reading as you stand.
Remember what you are reading and not immediately try to answer Brother Armstrong.
But please say that it makes sense.
