some people coming in we're ready to do i get any more papers from anybody uh today we are tackling
our last case in this module because next tuesday i think we'll uh keep our session open for
questions uh from you but let me say that i hope you will direct your questions to at least areas
I said I'll continue with the management.
Somebody, when I came in, somebody waylaid me and said,
can we discuss the COVID strike today?
But not in this class.
At dinner, yes.
Because A, I have nothing to contribute
that you can't read in the papers.
I read exactly the same papers you do.
Oh, and secondly, because let's stick to it.
I have little enough time, seven modules is a very short period.
It sticks somewhat to what's a big enough and big enough and worthy enough subject matter.
So next week, if you have questions, they should be in and around the management,
whether they deal with your personal effectiveness or with organization
always decision-making, but things that have to do with somewhat related to our authorized and announced topic.
You know, we're not going to be terribly pedantic about it, but still, at the Cold Strike, I think some outside,
On the other hand, somebody might say, well, here is the reorganization of a major company or a major government agency. How does it fit in with what we know about what is the right way or the wrong way to structure? That's fine, even though we haven't paid much attention to the modern organization structure. It's well within our purview.
Who wants to start and what are the results?
Incidentally, anybody here know what hospital this is?
Very well known in the Midwest.
But I have dramatized the story slightly, but very slowly.
Let's telescope the time frame.
Yes, sir.
I can't hear you.
Who owns the community hospital in Normandy?
No.
Who owns the community hospital?
No, not in this country.
What is the corporation?
What is the corporation?
The answer is no one.
The answer is the corporation of the public law.
If you want to incorporate under the public law you need three incorporators
and that's all you do.
Then you meet in the lawyer's office
office you establish that you're not for profit and therefore you don't have to register with the
secretary of state that's the sovereign state of california or whatever it is and off you go
go with the idea that somebody has to own what difference does it make anyhow here is that
hospital which colonel burner runs which is an airport hospital there's no doubt to own the
Do you think it runs very differently from the community hospital?
If you have a little broken leg, do they do anything different there?
And next to you is the hospital that the doctors don't do.
Do they run it very differently?
And then there's the hospital in the city of Los Angeles,
where the county runs, and there are problems in there,
but they're not ownership problems.
So ownership has become a very unimportant secondary factor in practically everything, control and management matters, for the moment.
So here we have a community hospital, the corporation owned it, the membership corporation,
It means that the members elect the board, and the board appoints the members of the membership corporation.
The liabilities and responsibilities of these two organs are very .
I would today, however, advise you not to go on the board of a community hospital,
unless you are willing to work pretty hard and we have adequate liability insurance.
because you are almost certainly the target of a malpractice suit.
You are the board, it's the corporation, and it's liable.
Personally.
Now, what are the results?
How do you feel about that?
What is the case?
What about the willing to make the stab at it?
Yes, sir?
Can you speak up?
Are you sure?
I mean, you make an assertion, is there much evidence, is there really a foundation for it in the case?
Maybe not. But you still need to say they haven't set the objectives, there's really no warrant in the case for it.
And incidentally, one doesn't make unnecessary assumptions.
You've heard me talk about Occam's leader, I'm sure, haven't you?
Can't stop it. Get away with it.
This is not a necessary subject.
You don't need it.
It's quite concerning that on the contrary,
they have said for too many of them,
they're not compatible women.
Anybody here willing to argue that Armstrong asked the wrong question?
What?
What question?
He says, well, I still don't know what results are or should be.
Is there a doctor in the house?
No?
You know, any American physician would say this is a stupid question.
See, what do you mean, results of the hospital?
The hospital is a cost center.
I have results in my practice, and the hospital is an extension of my practice.
there are no results of the hospital. The hospital can be damaged, can upset patients, can hurt them, but it can't do anything, can't have results.
And the only way to measure a hospital is whether it adequately supports me in my practice.
I know what results are you would see in my practice. I know what I expect.
I was curious if he really does, but I have a pretty good idea.
Maybe I can't quantify it, but I can define. And a lot of the good ones do, you know.
They do look every three months on their practice and see what am I doing by my patients.
And the hospital is a place where I put my patients so that I get access to resources.
They are my resources. I order the x-rays, not the hospital.
I order the sleeping pills, not the hospital.
I make the diagnosis, not the hospital.
So the hospital is the hospital.
The wrong question.
The question is, does the hospital satisfy my expectations?
And I know how to measure the hospital.
On the one hand, I look at how well they do the jobs which I order them to do.
Do I get those x-rays back?
Do I get the right x-rays back?
to mix up my patients. Do I get the x-rays? Are they well needed to read? Do I get them
back fast enough? When there is a crisis and they're mobilized to resources of the
hospital, are they available? And there is a minimum standard of patient care. If the
hospital forms below is my patients with more than right they will be billed and
eventually put me in the choice to go to another hospital of those patients and
that's what I mean by results and their results they're not results of the
hospital the hospital is a cost and they're not their results you have much doubt that the
typically internist will argue that way overall well no doubt that the board of
procedure with the responsibility, but is it for results or for standards, it doesn't really matter.
What's the doctor's point of view? What does the doctor consider a well-managed hospital?
Let me say, you bring a malpractice issue against the hospital. Do you bring it because
of a lack of results or what? What does a malpractice issue allege?
Negative results? No not results, never. By relation of the procedure, it would have been
proper procedure to take a second blood test and it wasn't done. That's procedure and the physician
who justifies, testifies for the defense would testify that it isn't proper procedure to take
blood test with this diagnosis, one will lose. And the plaintiff will allege that it is biolates good procedure, not the paecatectomy.
It's negligent. Procedure. We say the physician looks upon the hospital purely for procedure. Is there good procedure, not is there good result? Yes sir?
Yes, they are tools, yes, and the result should be to have more excellent facilities, and whether the facilities are used, whether not, is determined by the physician very largely.
We say that wherever you have the emphasis on procedure or ritual, you don't focus that.
You look at the oldest continuous civilization in the world right now, which is China.
And you know in the Chinese tradition, results are never known.
always good procedure. The whole Confucian idea is that behavior in conformity with the
proper rules, while it does not ensure success, violation therefore guarantees disaster. You
violate the harmony of the universe. And as long as you observe proper procedure, you
You have done whatever you can do, and results are meaningless to you.
And this is ritual and procedural, ritual behavior, not results matters.
Provided you have said please, you can slit his throat with impurity.
But you better say please. There is something to be said for that.
But, so maybe, how about the physician in other countries, you know,
would you like me to take the view of the internist,
the American internist looks upon the hospital as his workshop?
What is the extension of his office?
But there's still a line between his being the administrator with an M.D. degree and the administrator as the M.D. practicing physician that we say that in the Army Hospital where Colonel Brunner works, you have your administrator likely still to be an M.D., isn't it?
Sure. But when he has the license to practice medicine, I don't think he does, does he? Occasionally.
Maybe it's becoming more and more common for them.
Of course, they are frustrated otherwise. But let me say, he draws a good line between the two things.
The army or the military isn't ready to have non-MDs administer hospitals
And therefore it has to frustrate physicians.
Only people don't go into medicine, let me say, to administer.
They have all the motivation for becoming a doctor, the least likely.
And yet in the military, you have to, beyond a certain rank.
And so they are very frustrated.
So the military says, all right, alternate Fridays you can still kill people.
And so, but then you are a physician and not an administrator, so it goes on.
Now, if you go to the British Health Service, got any idea how the hospital is organized there?
Jim, you know it, don't you? Jim Carroll. You stayed out of it?
Yes, I stayed out of it.
Well, there the hospital is totally divorced from the practicing physician in the community
who does not even, who cannot even refer patients to the hospital officially or unofficially
in the smaller places he does, but the hospital has its own staff of salaried, employed people
although they can have a private practice on the side,
but they're free-time, employed staff.
And they're the only ones, in fact, who work in the hospital.
They're employees of the hospital,
which is a governmental institution.
And you would get a very different answer,
because the hospital is clearly not the workshop
of the community physicians.
It is a place that exists to take care of serious damage that has already been done, no nonsense about preventive medicine.
Very few British hospitals have maternity and most of them have closed it because having a baby is not really a disease.
That's done in basically lying in facilities which are more, it's a diagnostic and treatment center.
In this country the physician who refers you to the hospital, these patients are automatically admitted.
In the British hospital they are not admitted by an outside physician, only by the inside.
at the registrar, and the registrar, or the reporter that's there, is quite apt to say no.
No bleeding is not serious enough. That physician in the community can take care of it perfectly.
Or the family can. No bleeding. And there you have a very, I wouldn't say clear or gifted,
But the definition of the hospital's function is to take care of damage that has already been done, serious damage, very serious.
And one can set maybe objectives is a very big word. One can set expectations.
And one can then do, say, well, how well do we measure up against that?
And the hospital as such obeyed this or had expectations. The American hospital, from the point of view of the American physicians, the hospital is a building, not an institution.
the hospital is and he and the other physicians in the community share a facility simply because
not one of them has enough patience to justify to make possible the cost and the skills and the
support which modern practice of medicine requires but fundamentally the physician the american
physician is likely. Certainly the older generation of Americans
look upon the hospital as a place
as a workshop, as a toolbox
that many physicians would say. And as such
it's got no results. Sure it can do a poorer job or
a better job, but that is the results are entirely
in the physician's practice. And the hospital can
do damage, but it cannot have results. And malpractices, let me see, has exactly the same
rationale. It is no defense to malpractices that the patient recovers. The outcome is irrelevant.
The allegation of malpractices is that the patient or the hospital did not observe proper
not the result. Now it is unlike that somebody who recovers nicely and beautifully is going to
bring a malpractice suit, but it's by no means unknown. And on the other hand, lack of results
is irrelevant to the malpractice. The malpractice suit starts out with the assumption that there
is with at any given time within their known established parameters of
knowledge a good practice and that to be good practice is adequate defense in any
negligence you may appreciate. Negligence is always ritualistic. Here you have a dog
normally fairly well-behaved beasts and they have tied the dog up and in a
thunderstorm the dog has never been paranoid in a thunderstorm before but
you know some dogs do get very upset and in a thunderstorm suddenly that nice
loving family pet becomes hysterical, chews through her leash and runs out in the
street and rented their bicycle and the boy on the bicycle has a bad spilling
tax if you read them what have you that is not really what is relevant is
whether knowing the known history of the dog who never before ran out in the
street in the tax anybody you were your dear proper ritual proper practice
proper procedure. You tied up the dog, the dog never before chewed her leash through,
never before took her loose. Well, that's fine. Dogs are not considered inherently vicious animals.
On the other hand, if that had been a bear, there is no difference.
Old doctrine that the keeper of a vicious animal is liable regardless of any negligence or guilt.
what underlies european automobile insurance concepts where a swiss judge in 1906
and nobody knew what to do with the automobile road that's automobile but basically a vicious
animal and therefore whoever keeps in his life period whether he observes proper precautions
or not emissions animals if you have to have one around your life don't have i mean this
there is no proper procedure precisely because it's a vicious animal.
But a dog is not considered a vicious animal unless there is a history of being vicious.
And you have observed proper practice and therefore you are not negative.
So the first question is what kind of an institution, do you have an institution at home?
Because if you don't, you see, if all you have is a building filled with instruments and with people who carry out the doctor's instructions with high degree of skill, but still the doctor's instructions.
And we're increasing it to the nurses in a kind of twilight zone today, very much so we call it.
The nice, pleasant idea of the physicians that she just carries out of the orders is able to be too absurd to be swallowed, except by physicians.
And so, but basically, but still the law, neither the law nor the elect alone, the clinicians
have accepted the fact that the nurse is the executive officer of the hospital and not
a highly skilled health worker.
But that's fairly recent, that's the last 30, 40 years, you see, and things don't move
quite that fast.
The first question is, is it a meaningful question to say what are the results in the hospital? Yes, sir.
Are you saying, in effect, that you can't have results in the service or in the distance?
No, not service.
But, doesn't the hospital provide services to the doctors?
Yes, the doctor may say this hospital does not provide.
All right. You already see, maybe you then look at the hospital and you define the results as satisfying to the hospital. He's your customer. And that's what most hospital administrators would say, let me say. They would not say it out loud.
because it isn't popular. But you know there is another characteristic of the American hospital, which is unlikely to be found in any other place, unlikely.
It's competitive. Here out in this part of the world, how many hospitals do we have that compete for the Claremont position?
six with any enough driving distance apart from the fact that there's kind of
permanent in competition with the whole group of private condition in this area
very strong within that we say anybody know within what radius hospitals compete
community hospitals in Mayo Clinic is something else again or the City of Hope
I mean but the ordinary community with one radius you know one way five miles
one way yeah why oh what about the patient's family we say that and what is
very interesting is that whereas in practically all other institutions the
competitive radius is lengthening in hospital is shrinking anybody know why
Because of so many married women working.
The mother of the child, you know, who doesn't work, can drive eight miles.
She has little Susie in the hospital, but she has mother working.
And so she has to visit little Susie on her way home or on her way to work.
And so she's becoming more aware of the need to have the hospital close by.
Incidentally, this is not seen either by the public or by the traditional health care people,
or they would build hospitals out of cardboard.
And this hurts, because if a hospital has to be where people are,
then by definition any hospital is in the wrong location within 25 years.
There are, in this country, very few population centers that do not have structural changes within a generation.
And then the hospital is in the wrong place, which not only means that you have an expensive facility where the patient ain't,
but you have no hospital where they are.
And so actually hospitals and schools ought not to be considered monuments but temporary buildings.
And one of the most badly needed inventions is the building material that on the first day of the 26 years dissolves into component atoms. Otherwise, you keep on with temporary buildings.
The tendency of the human being is to keep on the temporary, to pack it up.
Hospitals become both also too expensive to maintain.
All the hospitals you deal with are very rapidly changing technology.
If you look at a modern hospital today, 60% of the instrumentation was not ended at the end of World War II.
There is no other productive facility that has changed so drastically.
And so there's nothing more expensive than to buy new old wine, new wine in those bottles.
That's what you can do.
Hospitals in this country are very competitive, whereas in most of the rest of the world they are not.
This is partly because the American hospital came in with population,
and the European hospital came in after population.
The European Heart Hospitals, the Greek, you all know that the first hospital is 12th century,
that's perfectly true, and it's also perfectly untrue.
Fundamentally, hospitals are creatures of the 18th century.
And by that time, in Western Europe at least, and Southern Europe,
settlement was pretty far finished, so you knew where people were going to be.
sure that the new major communities, the German cities in the U.S., the German cities in
Liverpool and Manchester, where Birmingham is fairly small, but by and large the pattern
was established. And so the hospital came in where people already were, and so a hospital
came in, so to speak, rationally. But also the hospital in Europe was from the beginning
a governmental institution, not the equipment of the continent, and the part of a local
government system. By design, you have, the design is the 18th century of modern local
government. The district, you had a district tax collector, a district judge, a district
the chief of police, and the district hospital.
That's Florence of 1770, which is the first modern,
rational, enlightened governmental structure,
which was then picked up by the French, and the Austrians,
and the Prussians, and the rest of Italy, the Spaniards.
And so you have the district hospital.
And except in very big cities, that's it.
There's no competition.
And the doctor in the district has no choice.
The only hospital that will accept this patient,
if you practice in rural France or small-town France,
is the hospital in the area of the perfect use, period.
Now then, it has to accept your patient.
And in this country, it's a very competitive situation.
It isn't only that every hospital
has to try to keep its beds filled.
And so it means it has to get the local doctors to use it.
But also, it has to try to be able to attract
the leadership of the medical community,
or it very rapidly loses its support by the physicians.
They almost have another place to go.
And so any hospital administrator
normally in this country, they're asking,
Whom do you serve? You would say, well, on whom do I depend?
And let me say, patients are an ultimate risk trader.
There is a hospital in this community which is not being put out of business,
but which is somewhat endangered because a good many people around here don't like it.
And they don't like it to the point where they say to the doctor,
rather than go there I switch to another doctor and when you reach that point, then the hospital is in danger
and the patient has an ultimate, not control, impact. But how often do you think that happens?
That one of our colleagues here, I think most of you have met Lu Pete, we haven't, there's many of you.
Now Lou was hired two years ago to take over a hospital that was put out of business by the citizens of Laguna Beach, basically a loophole feature. What was it? Laguna Beach, yeah.
Enough of them had said, rather than go there, I die in my own bed. At least in my own bed they changed the sheet once in a while.
But you know that took 25 years of systematic and purposeful mismanagement.
Anybody know what happened?
Look, I guess this was the Cassidy Hospital.
And then in shrinking in numbers, refused to hire lay nurses.
They insisted on the religious running it entirely.
But there is a point beyond which you can't do that.
And they went way beyond that.
It isn't that they didn't hire the nurses, no, but they made life very miserable for it.
They didn't let them do anything to promote or advance or pay them, no.
They resented them and showed it.
And so the standard of services at hospital, of patient care, and of medical care,
but of patient care, just eroded to the point where the patients,
the community with their feet, both with their feet against the hospital. That's very rare.
That's a high degree of error. But the physicians do it very fast, much faster.
So if you look at it as a hospital providing a service, the sense in which you used to
something against which other people exchange purchasing power.
Then you ask, who is the customer?
And one always decides who the customer is by saying,
well, who makes the buying decisions?
And it isn't the patient.
And one of the things which hospital administrators today
find singularly complexing is that the situation is changing
Because the third party pay over, the one who pays the bill, is beginning to get into the buying decision. Not in a positive way, but in a negative way.
Increasingly, they not only determine what the hospital will or will not get reimbursed for, but also they determine increasingly what hospitals
to allow their subscribers to go to.
We have not reached the point where
to work for General Motors in the under the health plan
and except in an emergency you can choose
from these hospitals in the community
but not from others which again the European practice.
But they are getting there, they are getting there very fast.
GM is in fact in Flint
When they made the GMC, this GMC is doing this with the union, or without, on the basis of our appraisal of the costs and of the standards of care.
And once this happens, quite clearly, we are part of chaos and begins to have some influence.
And the most innovative thinker in American healthcare, a Boston surgeon by the name of Eckstein, very important, is strongly in favor of that.
He thinks that. The one thing that is wrong with our system is that the people who pay the bill, who are not UNI, the large employers, the large unions, do not take responsibility, do not use their power, which if you had said that 10 years ago, it would have been howled down when it was absolutely clear that the last thing we would want is for the employers to interfere.
in the doctor-patient or hospital-patient relationship. Today, Banek doesn't have the
great majority of the hospitals on his side. He's finding a very receptive yield amongst
the large employers, simply because it isn't that the bill is so high, but that it's so
control. So you get a secondary constituency in, but basically this is very good. But that's
already saying that our friend Armstrong asks a meaningful question. If you take
the line that it isn't a meaningful question, that the hospital basically is a joint
support for the medical fraternity communities that what goes on in terms of
medical care is determined by individual physicians under the loose kind of
control by fellow physicians and by nobody else and very loose that the
The physician lays down the treatment of his or her patients, and sure an experienced nurse
would be known to go to the chief of the service and say, I don't quite know what's going on
here.
You better have a look.
But she doesn't do that often.
And here is that doctor who practices despite being an alcoholic, and the people in the
the hospital, feel a little uneasy about it, and try to do something about it. You'd be
surprised how hard it is. Then you would say that the hospital is procedural, and in procedures
you set standards, which are not. Yes, you assume that your standards and your procedures
have a relevance, but it's not a matter of results. It's a matter of observing proper
procedure and this is quite clear of the law of the hospital in a malpractice
unit. Anybody know the major government institution around today which is totally
procedurally focused and totally non-result focused? It's OSHA. That's the problem with OSHA.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration. OSHA, it is no argument
with OSHA that we have never had an accident.
In fact, it makes OSHA terribly suspicious.
Because OSHA is concerned with their proper procedure only.
And that's why OSHA obsesses people.
Let's not even argue whether that's the right approach to safety.
From all our experience proves it isn't.
All our experience proves that safety is not the result of equipment that are used.
shoot there is unsafe equipment and if you what if you have people who use a welding torch without
wearing goggles you are likely to have some eye injuries no matter how careful they are because
you can't really be careful with the welding torch on the other hand let me say that just
putting goggles on there is not going to prevent injuries if you don't do something additional
which is make people safety conscious uh anybody know how one does that anybody know what works in
safety train any personal people in this one nobody has anything to do with safety it is one area in
which a carrot is totally used in which there are two areas in which we know that only the stick
One is the treatment of the alcoholic. We have learned painfully that if one can stop an alcoholic at all, they do it only by being brutal.
And that means that being nice to an alcoholic is the worst thing one can do.
And that the only thing that has ever worked is to see if you don't stop or we are going to fire you and we are going to make sure that you won't get another job.
And that works not in the majority of cases, I'm sorry to say, but the only thing that works at home. Nothing else has ever worked with our party.
We know that. And the other thing that we see, where carrots and incentives and rewards are totally meaningless, we see.
Anybody know the safest production facility around? Nobody does. It's an atomic submarine. There has never been an accident.
You know why? That if you skin your neck with an atomic submarine, you're suspended without pay, pending court martial. Yes, sir.
And this, incidentally, is an industrial invention, not an alien.
This, Admiral Rickover, learned from Alfred Sloan, the General of the Corps, in the 20s,
when accidents were rife and nobody paid much attention and people just said,
well, what do you expect to happen if people work with a vessel?
He laid down on that. So GM wasn't in the business of hurting or killing people.
any supervisor who had an accident on the workplace was suspended and his
manager pending court-martial and if it happened the second time he was out
without court-martial, without the union. He had to backtrack on this during World War II
under the threat of formal unionization but it's still basically GM policy and GM
has almost no access simply because he you know here is that supervisor and everybody else sees
him getting fired because he had the second minor accident be surprised how sanitary it was
and secondly it gets part of the behavior of people who thinks and the supervisor is
willing to face up to that old employee who takes the chance, you know, a safety vest
event in a foundry is a nuisance, the damn thing weighs 50 pounds and it's hot enough in the
foundry without it and so the fellow won't wear it and any of you who ever had to work with the
with the safety helmet on, disagreeable things.
And he was the former, he is an old worker,
and he's a top of the union shop steward,
the former again.
And the foreman then, well, will, and will say,
well, either you go or I go, and I won't go.
And everybody in the place knows that the foreman
isn't harassing him.
The foreman next is on the block,
has got the support of the crew. Nobody likes to wear safety, you know. Everybody's trying to think
it will happen to somebody else, you know. And GM has tried to carry noise. And the Air Force,
due respect to our two Air Force members, in the early World War II days, Bill Knutson, who came
in as lieutenant general to the Air Force, from GM tried to put it in the Air Force, and the
the general seems to allow him, but too severe, and the airport has all the elaborate safety procedures and safety here does not have a good safety record.
It isn't tough enough. It's exceptionally tough. It blames the equipment. In the GM, you can't blame the equipment.
And if the equipment isn't safe, then it's your job to scream.
And we know there are few things where only incentives work and sticks don't work at all.
Anybody know the best example where you never use permission?
In training any animal, including the human one, in a routine.
For routine behavior, one uses only incentives and never, never, never.
Grandmother knew this when she put the piece of chocolate on their nose, the child plays
this game.
If it doesn't fall off you get the piece of chocolate and that works better than scolding
the child.
And also the feedback is there, you know.
You control your hand or the piece of chocolate will fall off, you see, immediately.
Very effective feedback.
And so children learn not to keep their hands.
