And sticks do not, that the essence of behaviorism, the first man who knew this was that great bohemian educator Comenius in the 16th, 17th century, or the path of modern education.
And everybody listened to him. It was so much easier to take a stick and beat the child, or the puppy, or the pigeon, where you deal with routine behavior which is animal behavior.
behavior. You use only incentive, small ones, never big ones, because they wear off too fast.
That piece of chalk, that grandmother has, but mancoscopic. And one M&M,
but there you have to hold your hands really very still or it'll fall off.
But on the other hand, you also know, though we don't understand, that things were only
only deterrent, only punishment, only the stigma and alcoholism is more not there. We think we know why,
but why safety we don't understand and yet it's a fact that any safety training that focuses on giving the crew
that has the best safety record in the middle and so on, there's not free safety behavior.
The only thing that is coming down like a ton of bricks when they're assessed like this accident.
I'm not asking who is to blame.
We run with zero accidents.
This is a biofeedback.
You don't quite know how it works, but it works. Yes?
You agree that...
No, sir. 70% happens to 6% of the people.
That's it with that.
Well then...
Far fewer than 10%.
Well, then the might of accident, that's 6% rather than...
Perhaps, but also perhaps we don't know.
May I please say that one of the characteristics of behavior
is that we do not know the causes and they do not matter.
When you talk behaviorally, you do not talk cause and effect.
You talk observed events, and we do not know why.
And in many cases, we will never know why. Partly because we lack a theory. Without the theory, cause and effect, you know, don't really help you. And partly, the phenomena are too complex.
Well, let me give you, here is Elliot Middleton, who is probably the country's leading asthma man today for children in Buffalo. And severe asthma is more children in their very middle, I think, than their very sick children.
And a very significant proportion of them learns to avoid asthmatic attacks.
You put an electrode here, and it transmits anything.
Nobody has their last middle.
Anybody knows it's just a piece of silver foil.
And the needle there, when that child...
The one condition is it must be one of the about 40% of all asthmatic children
who get a warning of an impending asthmatic attack.
Two minutes.
And then the child goes, plugs himself in,
in and keeps a little needle in the center and the asthma attack is avoided.
Now you can speculate that this works because you detract the attention of the
child. Instead of getting panicky, the child focuses on that needle and the
spouse miss panic very heavy. Or you may say that we don't know. We don't even
know what it is that gets constricted. We think we know, but it's by no means sure.
We know that the bronchi in the end get constricted.
But what gets constricted?
Is it the chemicals? Is it the nerves?
What is it?
But it works.
Not for one children, for about two out of every five.
But nothing else works.
And we have no idea what the condition is in any biopsy.
It's behavior.
And whenever you talk of behavior, one says,
here are the results and here is the stimulus that produces them and maybe one of these days
you'll figure out how it works but in the meantime here is aspirin synthesized when does anybody know
first synthetic drug what's the year 1899 i think you want to remember uh and uh till about make it
five years ago nobody had the foggiest notion why it worked. In fact you could
prove that it couldn't work. Now we begin to understand the mechanism. Any physician
used it immediately. And let me say the physician couldn't care less whether that
was belief in the efficacy of the drug, whether it actually was milk sugar, except
the milk sugar did not stop rheumatic pain and aspirin did or whether they couldn't care less
what matters was the stimulus aspirin raised for most people a substantial lessening of pain now
since nobody knows what pain is really to know the cause and effect it wouldn't have helped
we have no theory in any behavioral phenomenon one doesn't see what is the cause and see what
is the behavior. It's the nature. Safety, we know, is a behavior barrier. But OSHA
doesn't think so. OSHA looks upon it purely procedurally. The inspectors go through and
give you a clean bill of health, and you look at the safety record of the place, and it's
great. And they never do. They look at all the rounded corners or sharp corners, all
All the cards on which patients are being wheeled to, they have an automatic arrestor
so that if it tips, the wheels lock, which, let me say, it's the one way to prevent injury
to the personnel operating the cards and shifting the injury to the patient.
But OSHA does not talk about patients.
OSHA is only for employees.
No, I'm not, I think that's kind of, it isn't, believe me, it is.
procedural thing. Now, then the patient can bring him, I practice you. But that's not
OSHA's jurisdiction. And that cot isn't going to run away and hit. Well, you see, most
hospitals have learned a long time ago that when you go downstairs, the operator
reverses the cot, and it can't run away from him, and it can't hurt him either.
However, you haven't built it into your people, and it's not intuitively presented.
Unless people are built to do it, so push it down.
Then they get hurt, and the damn thing gets away from them both.
They have to be trained to, when they come to stairs, turn around and not go backward,
but go forward and use their back.
And once they've learned that there are no more accidents.
You go down 50, a flight of 50 steps here, but two is what you usually have in a hospital, or one.
And it works. But unless they are trained to do it that way, the equipment is still going to be needed.
And OSHA looks at the equipment. And that's a procedural view. That's a view of the world,
that if you do, that what matters are not results, what matters is doing them right. Yes, sir.
I was going to ask a question. What is the pathology in regards to the patients' emotions?
The pathologist, you say? Yes, in the hospital.
In the hospital, what? From the point of view of what?
Emotions in the hospital.
It probably takes a very dim view of the medical lab, I would imagine, for good reasons, by the way.
But OSHA is all that they say. The interesting thing is OSHA is only concerned with employees, not with people.
The medical hospital is a very unsafe place for people.
Very. But they want to build up.
So when you take a procedural view, and bureaucracies tend to think, then the question of results does not arise. Now you take a procedural view basically because you believe that there is a rational order in the universe.
That's a bureaucratic belief, and if you're in conformity with it, maybe that does not guarantee results, but if you're violating it, it makes damage to it. That's Confucian, that's Chinese, but that's any bureaucracy. That is what essentially an auditor does. Auditors are procedural, and one should be procedural. Auditors say, is there a voucher for every expenditure? Yes?
You file a workers' compensation claim, and then if you fire the employee, you're...
No, the employee you don't fire. The supervisor gets fired. The supervisor gets fired.
The employee before the union you probably couldn't fire.
But mind you, GM has fought like a white cat against any attempt on the part of the local workers' union
to relax this attempt on safety.
And a GM worker who refuses to wear a safety helmet in a safety helmet zone or doesn't wear it is out, and you at WSB fighting it for years, and GM doesn't. You have to take more than one strike over it. It's the only sensible thing to do.
uh but peace but you know gm's punitive or deterrent actually directed at the supervisor
it is a supervisor's job to run an accident-free shop ibm has the same reason for it and
you can't run it with zero accidents let me see the human race is it an accident if you have
weak ankles and you come down where you come down you know not quite straight
and you turn your ankle and you have a bad sprain or break it. Is that a
preventable accident? Probably not. Sure you should have probably met you with
nobody is that stiff but on the other hand if you have an operation in which
you attend the machine and before and then you turn around and bring more new
material on the machine. Many a better ability of people not to turn the body, not to turn
the hip, but to turn the whole. To turn the body is very easy to have an accident. You
slip, you are not very steady. The center of gravity is where it shouldn't be. And you
wrench your back too with the load. So just as it is, one insists on the people being
trained to lift by going down in their knees and not reaching down and yes
will and anything behavioral is there only by will and will and will and will
and not by being intelligent and sure one looks at operations and
make sure it's being done the right way because it's human behavior not machine
and you and OSHA's tendency would be to build a machine that doesn't release you
until you turn around and in a way in which with your foot you then activate
the button so that you have to turn around all the way that way you get
another accident no so but to go back to the hospital procedural approach is not
It is focused on the propriety and don't knock it. Don't dismiss it. In the first place,
one always needs a propriety. The kids of yesterday have already changed. We are very
scornful of anything that smacks of good manners because there were no results. We don't say
are not not candid why the kids misunderstand which understood good manners are propriety
they are the lubricants of human intercourse they make it possible for you and me to work together
even though we are not terribly fond of each other they make it possible to maintain
any blackness here and send a good relation that's their propriety there are no results
you come in and say good morning day before yesterday the sun did not come out you know
no matter how many times you said good morning on sunday morning
and still if one says good morning no one insists on it because the proprieties do matter they do
make intercourse possible now they are not the essence of human relations they do not make a
good marriage but this courtesy has ruined many a marriage the absence of the proprieties always
means disaster the presence never means results procedures proprieties protocol all are defensive
they cannot produce results but their absence produces damage now they might practice you
does not claim the absence of results it claims the absence of propriety
but it's not but from that point of view the hospital doesn't have results physicians and
the physician sees the hospital having certain minimum standards the practice by him and that
don't might be just patients too badly and that is satisfaction so we said that armstrong asked
a meaningful question, it's the first one. And these physicians probably all go around and say,
we don't understand the science administrator, we ask a quick question of his about results,
what the hell does he mean? But you can also look at it and see what results, and you have to see
who are the customers in a sense, who are the ones who have to decide whether they are results or not.
Is there yet one possible third approach? What's a normative approach?
Now, here is that preacher down at the United Methodist Church, who, maybe not these days,
these times, but for many, many centuries, preached every Sunday against fornication.
any results no uh a procedural matter uh a normative matters where you basically argue
that something is an absolute right not an innate right or an innate wrong the absence of results
is usually taken as proof of effectiveness of need that picture when you point out to him
that after you know there's no religion that has not preached against fornication so it's been
going on for a long time their results i'm afraid to report are probably zero no discernible
difference in human behavior uh the noise levels change but that's all yes how in the world do you
make a statement when you have no well observation is you know no ground measurement observation
And you come to the preacher and say, why don't you stop? Don't you see that you make no impact? What will he say? Here is that pre-communist China, that missionary. How many is he likely to convert in the lifetime of being a missionary in China? Do you know?
Not very many. The Chinese have not shown receptivity to Christianity to any great extent. The Chinese underwent one vile religious intoxication when Buddhism came in.
and ever since then have been exceedingly leery of any religious infection, as they would view it.
It isn't just Christianity, it's Islam just as well.
The Chinese are not very promising market for missionaries.
Now you talk to that missionary who, after 40 years in China,
retires the pilgrim place in Claremont, and who knows perfectly well that he hadn't converted anybody.
What will he say? Yes, sir. Yeah.
He's serving, he's not serving. You're, in other words, you're complaining or whatever.
I'm not complaining.
Well, whoever it is you put in front of him saying, what are your results, or else, and he's not concerned with...
You know you're probably underrated, good man.
He will say that this only proves how bad the missionary effort is needed.
He will, let me say, in any moment this process, the absence of results, proves that more effort is needed.
That preacher who has now been preaching for 9,000 years against the sins of the flesh,
To whom you point out that sure, measurements are totally lacking, and I hope you heard what our friend here said, because don't trust what the day passes for measurements.
For goodness sake, don't trust in such a public opinion survey. Don't trust that 17-year-olds tell you, told you 60 years ago that they had no sexual experiences, and today they tell you they have nothing else.
both statements are equally totally unreliable and are deterrent, totally.
You must pay no attention to what 17-year-olds say about their sexual life.
But there's no evidence that there has been a great deal of change, one way or the other.
For the better or the worse, it depends on where it's...
Yes, feelings may have changed, but behavior, not so much.
And if you point it out as a good preacher, he will simply say that it only proves how strong the forces of evil are,
and that we have to redouble our efforts. Don't you think so?
Let me say it is typical of any moral crusade that he redoubles his efforts when he knows it's doomed.
In the year of our Lord, 1932, when it was clear that prohibition in the United States
was going to be repealed by the next president, no matter what his name would be, there were
more arrests, prohibition offenses, and in all the preceding 13 years or 14 years after
they bolstered an act together. That's when the Prohibitionists really went to town.
What did they do? They had only one more year to fight the forces of evil.
But they believed in the forces of evil. Most of you are laughing here. We have a few probably who don't.
I know we have. We are our Campus Crusade for Christ friends.
friends, I think they probably wouldn't laugh at you. But, and if you talk to people who
believe that liquor is evil, they will simply say, it means we choose to fight with the
wrong ones, or we stop too soon. Do you really think it is the slightest argument against
the truly convinced communists that 70 years after the Russian Revolution, 60 years, the
crime rate and the alcoholism rate and what have you in the Soviet Union have
not gone down. It only shows how deeply rooted the bourgeois capitalist
infection is and we have to redouble our efforts. Because, let me say, this is only
the moralists, for the moralists the absence of results only proves how
strong the forces of Hebrew because he starts out with an absolute he does not
define result as what the physician pays for but as you did he defined it as what
is pleading to the Lord and yes sir
I can't hear you I'm sorry
systems in front of the tax country and that will always
Yeah, well, alright, fine. You might
go much further. This is perception and so on. Certainly.
And let me say the question is not whether this is
a perfectly legitimate approach. The question is whether it's the right cause.
You would all, I think, agree that the fact that after 4,000 or 5,000 years of law courts,
we still need law courts, there's no argument against it, would there?
The human race gets into collusion with one another and then it needs some system of justice
protect the weak against this oppressing strong and to protect standards of
justice. No argument that basically the results are very slow in coming years.
There are periods in which in certain societies for short periods people seem
to have been colliding less, I didn't say behaving better, because it's not the
matter of behavior, of collision, colliding less and others in which you're colliding
more. There have been periods which believe that one should encourage people to go to
law and others which strongly believe that one should discourage them. But fundamentally
there'd be no period in organized human society in which results for the law courts were not
seen is local fantasy movement. One argues for the existence of law courts not from their acceptance and their results, but because they are needed for the cohesion of society. And it is taken for granted that the cohesion of society is a good. And in the most convinced theoretical anarchist in the middle of the 19th century, Bakuni and what have you, will not have
argued that we don't need law court but he would have said yes perfect society won't need law
courts yes but he would just have said the locals are an instrument of the oppressor it isn't that
we are using abusing them uh where and uh when you as parents say that your children ought to
learn the multiplication table. Believe me, you're probably half normative, because
your argument that what for everybody had an electronic pocket calculator, why
should anybody have to know the multiplication table would annoy you
terribly, wouldn't it? Most of us it would, including myself, you see. You better know
the multiplication table. And then you come back with such silly arguments. They might
find themselves in the middle of the Sahara and no electronic calculator, and then they
better know how to multiply. The answer is, what would they have to multiply for in that
situation? You know. And so, no, you look upon multiplication as something that belongs
to educate that person. In Greece or Plato, you wouldn't have them. Nobody could multiply
in Greece because in order to multiply you have to have numerals, and the Greeks had
no numerals. They couldn't multiply. They depended on Phoenicians to multiply, who had
who were numerous, and who kept the secret, the knowledge very secret.
But nobody in Greece felt that little John Lee or the equivalent of little John Lee
ought to have learned how to make it like that, because nobody knew how.
But these are numerous, and don't say this ought to be the one or the other,
Except the fact that when in our approach to healthcare, for instance, we are very normal.
We do something that we see no other country does.
You know what we do?
We have inner-city clinics in our hospitals to force the poor to avail themselves of health.
The poor notoriously are not terribly interested.
It is not a major fact.
Health care is a value for the affluent, primarily.
And it's then to use the value for the middle age.
For the young, it is not that much of a value.
And for the poor, well, there are other priorities.
And we spend, anybody know how much we spend per corn
in the inner city clinic today?
Per corn, not per person.
Anybody know how much it costs?
Costs about $200.
You know, the ingredients, Beverly Hills Quack doesn't charge that much and does a better job
because the results measured by any improvement of the health of the poor are absent for a variety of reasons.
One is that the recipient is not really appreciative.
The other one is that the recipient is incompetent.
that he cannot use. Modern healthcare requires a fairly high level of competence on the part
of the recipient, such as the willingness and ability to push the pills down little
so with his throat, which a 16-year-old welfare mother of a 3-year-old brat isn't going to
fight with him. He doesn't have to come. But he also doesn't get ranked very high.
But when you say, why don't we give them their money, you will get the immediate answer,
then they wouldn't spend it on health care.
They'd spend it on things that are of much higher value, such as the rat exterminator.
And we couldn't afford, because we believe that health care is an absolute good, and
that they're being made to take it.
That's a normative approach.
And the fact that it costs more and more and has fewer and fewer results is proof positive
to the social worker, that we need to do more of it.
And you think that's funny, Ken, you are wrong.
You do exactly the same with the animal.
And we'll have an open forum,
and will you please think about questions you want to ask,
relating to the management problem,
legitimately or illegitimately, but still related.
And so, let's have another look at, probably had enough of this case, so let's not believe it. But you know there's one angle we haven't looked at. We have looked at some things that I think never really occurred, doesn't occur to people who talk about management.
namely that not all institutions can easily be defined in terms of what you call results,
and a great deal of the confusion you find is the result of people thinking that the conventional definition of results necessarily always maintains.
you know you hear people saying here they are out on strike for 78 days or 28 weeks and
it would take them 110 years to make up their strike losses remember
well it happens to be a totally irrelevant comment because very few strikes are basically
economic origin or in their fundamental needs. They are either political, their power struggles,
or they are aimed at cementing a communion of the members and their common cohesion against
the common enemy, where the economic price is very irrelevant. The cost may be economic,
but the results are not or you may essentially have a situation in which
results in the way which one usually looks at them are irrelevant because you're dealing
with it fundamentally and and value and moral value and that we were reminded from the fellow
in back who was i don't know whether it's back or not you don't you know he just came back here
That in a value system, a faith system, facts that do not agree with your value system tend to be rejected. They're not to be perceived. But also they tend to be considered to be quite irrelevant because they are not dealing with that kind of an issue.
You're dealing with an issue of absolutes, and the basic question is, are the absolutes the right ones?
You see, the basic question is always, are you serving the true God or an idol?
But you serve the same way, and it's very hard.
There is no objective measurement for absolute values.
Most of you, not all of you, but most of you in this room seem to feel that stamping out
the demon run was of very limited benefit and certainly not a moral cause and maybe
a public health cause.
Maybe we don't be better off if we didn't have any liquor around.
The evidence that you know is that overwhelming on either side, but certainly not a moral
But now, who are you to say so? I happen to be with you, but one has to accept the fact that there is no evidence for it. Moral absolute, there is no evidence. And you maintain that the black welfare mothers, when they get to work, they put health care very high on their priorities. Well, they don't.
But who is to say that they shouldn't or should?
And so you get into value problems.
And any attempt to come up with an objective, value-free
approach to value problems is very difficult.
It's not impossible.
There's a very important branch of modern work on its logic
or philosophy, the actualities that
deals with the assessment of values and values problems but it's not that simple
that was one thing and now let's look at something quite different in this case I
think we can see why our friend Armstrong may be confused because when
he talks results to his physicians they kind of look at him round-eyed
You don't know what the hell he's talking about. And when his talking results to true believers, they find it very hard. And they will then, alright everybody, except that on battlefield conditions where you have so many physicians and you're overwhelmed by casualties, you have to use triage.
You have to divide your casualties into three parts. That's what triage means. French physicians in World War I realized this. The ones who will not get worse despite the absence of medical care, not necessarily recover, but the ones who will die anyhow.
And the ones where medical attention will make a difference, and you concentrate your very limited health care resources on the battlefield on that, too, where they will make a difference.
And when it comes to the battlefield, you accept this.
But when it comes to kidney dialysis, we don't.
Because there you have a different situation.
The probability, one is as much a probability judgment as the other, you know.
And yet we feel strongly that there is no economic,
no cost-benefit calculus in respect to human life.
And yet we are dealing with the same scarce resources.
So the whole question of results in respect to healthcare
might strike quite a few people as simply an immoral question.
You have an absolute. Health is an absolute.
Alright, we are limited by our ignorance.
There are lots of things we can't do anything about.
We don't know what to do with the schizophrenic
And we don't know what to do. Somebody has had a coronary, except hope. That's all we can do, you know, and watch. What's good to watch is that we don't know. The hoping is the only thing we can basically, because we don't know under what conditions you get the second one or let's say a stroke is much, we can do.
And that's our ignorance. And if we knew what to do, we would try to. Because health has become a form of absolute and moral, absolute in modern society.
That, by the way, is something very new. 200 years ago, there was no such feeling about health. And either because we can do much more than we could 200 years ago, or because we have changed our attitude, we have changed it.
But there may be another way of looking at it. Here is a hospital. When you speak of results in a hospital, and you ask the question about who is the customer, and you say the physician, because you apply, the way one finds the customer, which is always to say who makes the buying decision.
By the way, do you know, does a business, how many customers does a business have, how many kinds of customers, do you know? It's a minimum number. See, every business has two customers, owners. And in fact, every business has four.
First, it has two customers for its goods or services. You know here you are making your canning potatoes or tomatoes or peas or what have you, and you sell them through Alphabeta. You have two customers. You have the housewife and you have the supermarket.
And they have to satisfy both. If you don't satisfy Albertsons or Alphabeta and they don't put it on the shelves, the housewife may want your brand very badly. But do you really think she's going to travel to the other side of the county to find your brand?
She's either going to say what other, what good brand is there, or if she, in the very unlikely but not impossible case, that she will not eat any canned beets, unless they are, I don't know, canned beets, let's say, Del Monte.
She won't eat any but the amount they can't beat. Well, then she isn't going to say a piece, but she isn't going to really think she's going to make another shopping trip just because the supermarket doesn't have her brand.
Now she may eventually switch her custom to another supermarket because in the things
which she cares much about, coffee, meat, fresh fruit, another supermarket is a much
better source.
But that's not the reaction the first time.
And so you have said, oh the axiom of the retail business, if you ain't got it on the
shelves you can't sell it.
It's a very sound action. And on the other hand, you know, here is the canned goods producer and he starts a rattle-dattle promotion and he gives the supermarket twice the markup and the housewife doesn't like the brand and doesn't buy it and the brand will die.
Anybody know which supermarket is dying because it didn't accept that?
The A&P.
The A&P insisted on running its house brands,
of which it made twice the margin of profit.
And the housewife does not like private labels.
The only private label that does well in this economy is the sales label.
And it is hardly a private label, though it is, technically speaking.
Otherwise, the housewife likes nationally advertised brands.
Anybody know why?
What?
Why is that girl as irrational as Mr. Nader thinks she is
and as badly in need of a nanny and of somebody to change her diaper
as she thinks she is?
Or does she have a point for this?
There's something Mr. Nader doesn't understand.
Choice.
She wants a choice.
Here are 16 different supermarkets carrying the ABC brand, and so 16 professional buyers buy. The housewife has no way of judging the quality of a brand of beets, does she?
All right, a case of botulism, that's one thing, although she's unlikely to survive too. But otherwise, what can she do? And let me say, between you and me, the more you put on the label, the more confused you'll be.
If manufacturers really knew how to run their business instead of trying to be philanthropists,
they would welcome all labelling laws. They confuse the customer.
Have you read the latest statement on your Bank of America statement about what they charge you?
Can you figure it out?
Now, this is written, I don't know by whom, by a minor poet, who's in all of this.
They're the only ones who can write that kind of stuff.
No, what she knows is do the kids eat it or don't eat it.
But she also is quite aware of the fact that she is in no position to judge the wholesomeness of this stuff, the quality of it.
But here are a dozen professional buyers who don't know canned vegetables. The person who buys canned goods, Alphabeta, there's nothing else. The housewife may not know this, but she's suspect that the Alphabeta buyer knows more than she does.
And the Iverson buyer knows more than she does. And the Riles buyer knows more than she does. And there are 16 in her buying. And this is no guarantee of quality, but it is a guarantee of guarantee maybe to bring about the indication that quality can't be totally lacked.
She has, she is reassured, she knows better than to believe in a universal conspiracy.
The only people who believe in a universal conspiracy are politicians and paranoids,
and sometimes the two terms are synonymous.
Universal conspiracy is the trouble with them, it's there to come, Vicky.
You know, one cannot even, a conspiracy of two is already very difficult.
And most of you found out in seventh grade, didn't you? How long could you keep a secret in seventh grade, remember?
What? Conspiracies are very hard. And conspiracies of 16 produce buyers are unlikely. Put it mildly.
So, and that private label, the housewife may not know that the A&P makes twice the profit margin on it,
on it, but nobody else pushes it. And so she is leery. And the resistance to private
labor is perfectly rational. It is what people have to do who have no way of judging.
The housewife does not have a lab in her kitchen. And here you have a testing lab for cancer.
So she has to depend on an informed buyer.
Here are 15 who buy Green Giant.
And here is the Anne Page brand of the A&P for those of you who are old Easterners.
And only one buys it, you know.
And obviously, it's the same fellow who makes it.
And so the resistance to the private label is perfectly rational and no retailer understands it. And so you have to satisfy if you can beets. You have to satisfy the housewife. If your experience is very unsatisfactory, the kids don't like it.
Or she gets cans that are spoiled. Badly canned. Or she doesn't like the taste. Too much vinegar and the beets are not enough. That's it. You reject it. Or the quality is uneven.
The single most common cause why buyers do not visit a brand is that the quality, a brand's basic function is to be an assurance of quality maintenance. You'll get the same stuff every time. That's what a brand stands for.
So that if you have had good experiences with it last week, you expect of good experiences with it the next week, because a brand is an assurance of quality. That's why, incidentally, people who make branded goods are so reluctant to think of it.
Whether they turn out the magazine, the person who buys Time or Newsweek expects the same kind of magazine, and it resists even very minor changes. Layout, tight face, let alone format.
And the same is true of canned peaches. So you need to sell the housewife and you need to sell the grocer, both. And their expectations are quite different. What they consider value is totally different.
You have to satisfy both. And let me say you have to satisfy, not with your good, but as an institution, a capital market. You have to be able to attract and hold capital into the market. And you have to be able to attract and hold employees to market your jobs and your careers.
So you operate almost at four customers and if you really fail to satisfy any one of them, you're going to be out of business. And their expectations are quite different. And yet you may say that if you satisfy the expectations of the customer for goods and services in a business, customers, you are likely to survive.
Let me say, you all think this is proven. It isn't true, that if you only sat, the economy is maintaining.
