How do you deal with cronyism in any institution,
corporate or in the management structure?
Anybody got any suggestions other than rat poison?
Put that down as an alternative.
It's an alternative to our thing for that particular affliction.
What do you think?
And needless to say, none of us is guilty of it.
It's always the boss.
Is there a way, what do you mean by cronyism?
Maybe you'll describe it.
Can you all hear him?
Yeah, good.
It's a period, it is making decisions.
Well, that's, would you all agree with that definition
or is it in these somewhat more serious one
than this definition would indicate?
I had the wrong label.
Well, no, I think that most of us probably
mean something with the top man or woman.
Of course, it's not the secondary sex characteristic.
Probably isn't.
We surround ourselves most by flat words,
only by people who say up to him and to them.
first are right, and whether they perform or not, and who then determine and influence
the decision process, and then freeze out the ones who really are and should be concerned
with it. Why do you have the disease? In a disease, when asked for the autology, what
causes it? Why do you have it? Why do you have it? Why is it a problem?
Okay. I don't know about most, but if most accepted it, I don't think you'd have much of a problem if you'd have an organization that's organized that way and functions that way.
What's the problem? Why do you accuse Harry Truman of cronyism and clearly John Kennedy of extreme cronyism?
John Kennedy learned through his sorrow that one can't trust cronyism. Why? Why is that?
What makes them do it? Why is it a disease to especially top men in institutions are prone?
Yes, sir.
Well, often, if one can trust somebody,
it's more important than the small difference in competence.
If one can trust somebody.
What does that mean?
Mutual loyalty.
Mutual loyalty.
That wouldn't be too bad.
Something to be said for mutual loyalty.
Yes.
To tell you what you want to hear.
To tell you what you want to hear.
Yes, sir.
It's much more pleasant.
Usually the cronies are in the official decision-making positions and the official decision-making process of what?
I'm going to shock you. Every one of you so far, when we get to the top, is going to go in for a cronyism.
Every one of you, because you own, not one of you has any defensiveness.
Every one of you is going to go in so far.
bother because here is a serious disease and you kind of give trivial causes. You deal with the very fundamental problem at the top. The problem is, any of you read the Sloan case?
The problem is that at the top you are, if you want to do your job well, you are lonely.
You are forced to have no friends within the organization because our friends expect mutual loyalty
and you know, or you think you know, that you can trust them, and you think that they will not politicize for their own benefit,
but have your interests at heart, they right you wrongly, and in no time you have your own plea.
And so, there is its own solution, which is to be totally wrongly.
And in the first place, that's a harsh life, and very few of us are really equipped with it.
But also the price is very high because the great weakness of this loan system is that you are cut off from information.
You're cut off from any form of information.
not everybody you know the the greatest practitioner of this loan management
style you want to call it ever frankly you who had cronies whom he never allowed
or he thought he never allowed to get into the decision-making process
Tommy the court Tommy Corcoran and very far either fellow of Ben Cohen maybe the
the ablest man next to Harry Hopkins,
and Rex Tuggles, who were really courteous,
who had minor positions, with whom he relaxed over a case
of beer, but not the bottle.
And they had social graces.
They called the accordion, and you
more bawdy Appalachian ballads than anybody has ever heard of, and when
Cohen knew more funny Jewish stories than anybody ever heard of, very funny ones,
and he relaxed, but when, and he used them very cleverly as kind of, but it could
easily be disavowed. He used them to plant an idea, and if the idea landed with a big
said, well the boss had never heard of it. They were expendable. But the moment any of
them tried to have any influence on policy, he was excited. Rex Tugwell thought that he
was, there was such a thing as a brain trust, which is a deliberate invention of FDR's.
There was no such thing. Pure mis-envision, which saved his public relations admirably.
And Rex Tugwell thought that he was a brain person, that he was in it and was making policies, you know, the day after they appeared in the Washington Post.
Rex Tugwell was appointed governor of the Virgin Islands before the jet plane.
It was never heard up again, you know, and was out.
But FDR was very fortunate in that he had Elena, who was his eyes and ears until he kept in touch with all kinds of strange people.
Delinquent youth, which Elena had in an inexhaustible supply, and women's groups, and labor, and the churches.
And she was in the family. And she brought the word to him. He also took great care to shop. He did what Lincoln had done before him. There was a great, your West Secretary of State, the proper Boston Brown and Seward, never got over the shop that the President kept him waiting for three hours while he interviewed a Baptist itinerant preacher from the country.
Confederacy. But as a result, Lincoln knew pretty well what was going on in the Confederacy.
The itinerant Baptist preachers get around. And Secretaries of State get from Boston to
Washington and back. That's the norm. And FDR kept cordial and held his equally stuffy
Secretary of State from Tennessee. One can be just as different kind of stuffy.
There was a difference between Sawamash and Harry, but still stuff it.
He kept him waiting three hours while he sat down with the Presbyterian missionary.
He had just come back from darkest Africa.
In 1914, the darkest Africa was very dark.
And so he pumped that good missionary who had been there ten years,
was a friend of a friend of a friend of Elinor.
And then I listened to the man, Sally Winters, and so she brought him into the hospital,
spent three hours and kept the Secretary of State waiting.
FDR was not very good at putting Secretaries of State in their place.
And that's the problem, this long approach, I've been through it.
Not only are you terribly lonely, but the danger of being cut off,
depending on channels and depending on your good people here and what you send
upstairs and you know if I'm your boss I know one thing I never hear anything
from you that you don't want me to hear. You accuse me that I am guilty of
cronyism because I like people who tell me what I want to hear. But you know you never tell me anything you don't want me to hear.
You don't do it twice then.
No. Every time you come to me, if I'm your boss, you'll want something from me.
Everybody always wants something from the boss.
And the things that make you look good, and the things that make me decide to
give you the budget allocation you want, when you're there, you become sure I hear.
The rest is on page 68. And if you know that I am allergic to
figures, it's in a quadratic equation. I can never be accused of withholding information.
And if all I can receive are figures, it's in a narrative token. And nobody ever gets
close to the boss unless he wants something from me. So that's the problem here at the
top. On the one hand, the moment I have a friend in the official family, I'm guilty
from it. Because friends expect friendship. And maybe you understand a decision in which
I have to say no to one of your pals, but you know your right one. You and Jim have
been friends for 28 years and the first time you asked for a favor he turned you down.
What kind of a friendship is that?
There is pressure if you have personal relationships.
But if you don't, you're terribly lonely.
And then you look for people to break that loneliness.
But also, if you don't have friendship within your official family,
you'll run the risk of being cut off from reality.
Not just because everybody tells you something to a purpose,
but also because nobody understands.
You know, it's in the Air Force, they tell me, high brass
arrives without anybody's being aware of it.
Sudden surprise visit, you know, six weeks ahead of it.
In any well-organized Air Force, you
know there's going to be a surprise visit.
And the buttons are being polished, and should be.
Here is our friend and colleague,
the colonel ranking this probably west of the Mississippi in the airport, and she inspects
and audits, and believe me, she can't arrive unannounced. She thinks she arrives unannounced.
But her yeoman, or whatever, who let her arrive unannounced isn't going to last very long.
Not because she pushed that yeoman out, but because the airport, they don't have yeoman
in the airport. The airport didn't make damn sure that he or she isn't going to be around
too long. It's too dangerous. Sure, she has been around long enough so she sees when they
have things literally brushed under their bed just the day before. But it's just too
different. She sees it, she has a good nose, and incidentally they have been around long
long enough to leave one thing for her to criticize, your dog.
But Anna is a big boss and she is, and it's fun.
She doesn't prowl through the walls alone.
There are four people having her in all around,
and it's a formal presentation.
I think the military is taking it to the conference room
in front of him and giving a presentation with a pointer,
and you get away from it and doubt it.
What else can you do?
The idea that great people can travel in common
help, well, it exists in romantic novels,
but no other place.
Because there you know that this fellow who's passed,
but this Baron of Monte Cristo is really the King of France
in disguise.
Don't you think you knew it?
And so, yeah, it's not a problem.
How do you make it possible for you to have access to reality?
And it's a very old problem.
Any of you know the Arabian Nights days?
And that Sultan of all the faithful,
al-Rashid, who at night then put on ordinary citizens' garb
and traveled and prowled the streets of Damascus, remember?
Let me in on a secret. Every policeman in Damascus knew this at the time.
And when you, there were policemen obviously, and when you went past one police box,
in that garb of a mendicant, Muslim friar or whatever it was, the smoke signal or whatever it was,
here he comes, and three blocks down there they were watching, coming our way,
And very rapidly telling Sir Indesirables, get out, that quick.
What?
It's the same story in France.
It's the same story in France.
He drops in on the French family for lunch, you know, unannounced.
And also mobile neck hat.
And look, they also suddenly have a six-course dinner.
And they're also at home, you know.
They like this, but every other French family is on the road.
That family is at home.
And the food, I have a strong suspicion
that all the lady has a house that is laid out.
Otherwise, it comes from the caterer.
What does he expect?
And I don't think the situation is a very easy one.
Do you really think he is the French mechanic
and the president of the perfect grocery
for Sunday dinner, and you have easy chit chat?
and the kids have all had haircuts,
and somebody looked at their school grades
and said, well, if you asked about them,
don't tell them that little Bertie got a C in geography.
Just roll out that A in French history.
And what else do you expect?
This is impossible.
So how does to keep in decision-making places
balance the need for an impersonal relationship
within the structure, because when you are, you have commitment, you're either to talk
or clone it. And the fact that you get home, it's awfully easy to become insolent, not
only by wealth, but proposition. And there, not only do you see what you're, there was
probably no shrewd or monogamy in Central Europe, St. Castle was great. Just imagine
an elder German, minor princess, from a totally unimportant and poverty-stricken, minor wrong
side of the tracks princely family, married into that turbulent Russia where no Tsar in
a hundred years had died in his bed, and no Tsarina had died in her own bed.
There she was at age 14, not speaking a word of Russian, married to a Bavarian, 2,000 miles away, who bought her, paid 2,500 guilders for her.
It was the only German princess he could get at any price.
The other people, daughters, everybody had too many daughters, and daughters were not of great account.
But still, they are your flesh and blood, and you don't sell them to Russia.
You know, the princes of Anahata, absolutely nobody's ever heard of them before or since,
needed money very bad, and there was an ugly daughter anyhow.
They were sold deliberately. It was a cash transaction.
The only thing that is nice about the story is that the tower of all the Russians didn't pay.
promised and said, at least till somebody behaves like a human being, and in that, otherwise,
I speak every sort of story. And so she came to Russia, 14 years old, with a tote that
was brutally done to start her father-in-law who raped her when she was 15. Loving story.
About as nice a story as you can find. You don't have to go to Los Angeles family court
And she survived. She got rid of that, the husband. She had him murdered, and he was a people's female knight.
When they broke the treaty, to beat her every night. Did she finally have him killed? A couple of lovers.
And she survived three of the most dangerous rebellions.
A woman in Russia, alone, a foreigner, rejected by the aristocracy, and established her own
in a very shrewd government, and a very tough one.
And yet when she went down to the Ukraine, Potemkin, a keen nationalist and one of the lovers,
could the country, the Cossack rebellion had, it burned the country.
and he looked like Berlin after the World War II,
a little worse probably.
And he built those Potemkin villages,
pure corporate, private, a facade front.
And every night when she went to her tent camp,
he had his mantle taken down to her
that she was going to inspect the next day
and rearranged a little bit, and he phoned her,
and don't ever, don't believe that any of you
is prankier than she was or has more experience
than she has. It is easy if you depend on the official channels. So how do you get to
reality and maintain good personality? I'm thinking for that one. It is that degeneracy
of the leader of an organization, which is not all the policy we give, I tell you, because
No, there will be a serious problem, a serious functional problem, that there is incompatibility
between two equally great needs. You have to keep yourself free from achievement and
entanglement, and if you're dumb, look at our recent presidents, everything they want,
I don't think you'll regret that, friends. Friends are courteous, and they betray you
or every time, whether it's Bobby Baker be playing Henry Johnson or the Byzantine intrigue of the Nixon presidency or what you see today.
Our present president is going to be let down in the bank by the Georgian mafia.
It has already begun, hasn't it?
Then you have to do what FDR did, who had no friends, no colleagues.
What Lincoln did, who tried at first to befriend with the cabinet, and then very soon after, he couldn't afford it.
The only subordinate.
What George Washington did, who was the only subordinate.
The most social, blank, gregarious man that he never met, was Thomas Jefferson.
He was the only subordinate in his official family.
And then you realize, and then you realize how, then you realize that you make mistakes
Because you lose the feeling for reality.
You sit in the Élysée Palace in Paris, you know, how it's all pretty.
You forget how a typical Frenchman lives and thinks in the Élysée Palace.
The one thing you know is that the typical Frenchman does not live in the Élysée Palace.
It's all pretty if you are queen of France.
And they ask for a princess, she didn't say, let me say, let me say.
He could have said it, and on top of that, it's not terribly right.
But when they tell you that there's a bread riot in Paris,
they say, why don't you eat cake?
That's awfully easy.
You get far away from it.
The real thing you have for princes and the queen of France
ever had the problem of having enough bread on the table
or knows anybody who ever had that problem?
That's something you read about in books.
On Sunday, you get money for it in church.
But that's as close as you can.
So, she didn't say, let me say, only because royal princesses at the time would not open their mouths, and she never did.
And, but she might have sworn, but don't think about it in that sense. It's very hard.
in the huge big royal court with all the luxury, which you pay 30,000 louis d'or so that you can afford to pay that you are a simple shepherdess,
that costs 30,000 louis d'or, that's an incomparable sum, something like 5 million dollars, so that you can be really simple.
How do you maintain, you're not president, you don't have to be president, you're president of a medium-sized company.
You know where this is at? This is the greatest argument against government.
We established the pattern of the government system in Washington, it's the truth.
Because everybody in Washington, well the only other government,
you're going to london and paris and vienna or madrid or rome civilized cases where the government
the cabinet minister doesn't have dinner without the time or is not a celebrity because her work
is a mixed society a businessman and professors and military people and artists and you can pick
your own society and uh why didn't in washington you never meet anybody you isn't government and
Inevitably you're on rank, because otherwise you can't see things.
And governments, it is isolated, it's aggravated.
But you don't have to have Washington, or Brazil, or Kandahar.
I had dinner with an English friend who just came back from government,
English government on Sunday, from Kandahar.
For two weeks he said he was great.
For two weeks he saw nothing but assistant secretaries, nothing.
He's done his job his whole life, but he is one, I don't know, of the British government.
He's head of export promotion, which is ranked sub-capital.
So it's for nobody else.
Because nobody else is in Canberra.
Canberra is a government city.
There are kangaroos and government servants.
Occasionally, one could say kangaroos, but one can't divide them into ten of them.
And they're not so easy.
So at least they can hop.
The government says, can't even do that.
Random jokes.
But the total accident.
Then you don't understand.
Then you don't understand that this country,
the people in this country have no reason to believe there's an energy crisis.
How can anybody with experience,
being in life, understand the energy industry, believe in the energy crisis?
It's a weird one, you would notice it, wouldn't you?
Anybody notice it?
All your years and so on and so forth, you don't do it.
But you have reports and facts and figures.
And that is the problem of problem.
The degenerative disease is very dangerous.
But it's enough because people are frivolous.
Or like Flapper, incidentally, except everybody likes Flapper.
There's nothing wrong with Flapper.
There's a little more Flapper, it can't cure.
The only problem is one day we put our factory on with anything but a cow.
Unless it's sick, it doesn't work.
Nobody's that secure.
I think there's only psychology books.
There's only psychology books, no mature individuals.
Otherwise they don't exist.
No one needs facts.
And all the books tell you that subordinates need praise.
And they do superior things.
And they're members of the human race,
and they're all kings and queens and wonders.
And that's a very serious thing.
And it's not so easy, besides.
And the L.S.P.R. heard telling me,
Ant and Harry Hopkins,
that Harry Hopkins could only serve his role
because he was really a dead man, literally.
know that there was no physician who could figure out how chemicals
for three hours a day, he only see, meeting millions of zombies
seeing anybody who was
so to this, all his organs were gone
he had no liver left, he had no intestines left, he had no limbs left, he had no spleen left
very, the pre-material to extreme physical senility
He said, no, at age 50, he was 90, 95, 94, he said, the sheer willpower to function across reality is, as a cadavre, with the people who have met him, walked in court, and every step of the dance, he didn't think he'd make the next step.
As he had no more ambitions, he had transcended life.
No one can have that relationship.
But other than that, how do you do?
That is why it's so important that we serve our people in important positions,
not to become prisoners of the organization,
not to work 18 hours a day,
not to take their vacation with their fellow vice presidents,
but to get their way and to take vacations
and to have friends who have, to whom the problems of an organization are totally unimaginable, you know.
You sit down with a good physician, entitled doctor, entitled to tell you what's going on in the organization,
you can't understand a word, thank God.
You may restore your silence, because you suddenly realize that enormous problems,
That's a very serious problem of organization, how to find the squaring society problem,
between the loneliness of command without which you become the victim of your organization,
and the isolation of command that informs your vision and your judgment.
I once was at the dinner party, just to end things on a funny note, in Cambridge, Harvard, dinner party, at which were very quiet gentlemen was the other. Yes, anyone was. Anybody know who the victim Rowley is? Nobel Prize physicist, highest aristocracy of France, very quiet man, huge for English, Cambridge, Oxford, I think he was.
And the other was, yes, that they didn't know what all was mean, I think, that both of them were funny.
She treated that picture very absolutely good.
And every two seconds she got the cross saying that,
eh, he obviously was not an old Boston family and was there by color.
And he was vaguely amusement, so was I.
He didn't hear a word.
But you know, it didn't appear that that's stupid.
No, it's not stupid.
with a cupboard on her mother's side,
a lower on her father's side, and so on and so forth.
That there could be a good family
beyond three miles of Harvard Square,
and maybe not even three miles.
You couldn't look at it.
Total lack of any protection against the human race.
She was stupid, all right, yeah.
Her husband wasn't much better.
And it was a painful year.
But they're all like that.
You take our little work from them.
And the other ones, we may know enough not to be out,
but we still don't know enough. And so if you become the prism of the
organization, you believe that
one of the progress managers, executives have to communicate
with the human race. The human race doesn't work that way.
they don't know. Okay, do we have another question? But watch out for, if you ever get to the position, some of you are either there or close to me. On the one hand, friends are a danger, and no friends are a danger, both. And how does one do it? How does one build a circle of people where one is the boss, where the human being, who see the world differently, and a different world, so that one doesn't lose touch,
And yet within the organization, how does one teach in person? Very difficult.
And yet not totally isolated, totally lonely. But believe me, effective executives force themselves to have no friends within the organization.
They pay the price of numbers.
And they think through how one then again builds windows and sent to others outside.
The man whom I knew, when I say knew, whom I could see, knew is the wrong word,
because it implies that he could see me, he couldn't.
It was George Marshall, you know Marshall, who forced himself to have no friends.
of the U.S. Army, in wartime, cannot afford to have any friends in the military service.
He had many, many good war men, close friends in the service. All these people were his
contemporaries, but he wasn't West Point. But from early days, 1917 in France, he had
no friends. He never had a meeting with any of them. Not even an official meeting.
He ate alone. And he was once brought up, I heard the story, third hand, by the Assistant Secretary of War, the very, very brilliant Jack McCloy, who's around, still alive.
And the borderline defendant, McCloy said, well, what is the danger that you become cut off from the world?
He said, the great strength of the American political system is that I have the likes of you who are not military, who know nothing about the army, who don't understand it, who are political appointees and with whom I have to approach the issue.
Without that, it would take three months before I would lose all sense of reality and perspective.
Or, the opposite, three months before I would appoint my friends and punish my enemies.
And that's the strength of the system of civilian control.
The control, Marshall said, yes, but that's the lesser part.
It is the civilian as an input of information that matters, of vision, of understanding.
If you don't understand what I am saying, well then obviously nobody is going to.
So I have to explain. On the other hand, you have to explain to me.
I have to explain. Without it, my judgment would be totally deformed.
No time at all. Three months. Political judgment, people judgment, anything.
I would become the, or I would have to have, nobody can survive as the whole person in their totality is in isolation.
Permits begin to have vision. Voices talk to them in no time.
Well, I can't. Solitary confinement is a severe test of sanity.
Some people, but the people who are surviving organize, you know, they all invent a dream world.
The right knob is in the head, otherwise it can't survive.
Maybe the top management organization is in solitary confinement.
Okay, what's the next question?
I would need management.
Small company, big company?
No. Now then...
Can you all hear?
Yes, I'd like to help you.
It's a wide open field.
Why don't you tell him in any event provided he needs to write the check.
to check. That's our problem. Anybody know that situation of the small and growing
founder-managed company where the fellow at the top then says I need management
he says I can tell you what else he says is it every one of my people in the
word Peter but everyone is still too young to be put into a job but into the
top job no into a responsible even let me see the small and growing company
anybody interested in this how many of you are at a special if I hang out my
single that would be almost my specialty is not the branch of pediatrics and not
the branch of geriatrics it's a children who pass directly from infancy into
senility no it is possible to avoid the identity crisis towards which your
companies moving very fast but it is possible to prevent it it is very
difficult to cure one of those diseases where we know the prevention we don't
execute and here is Jim Smith who started that company and built it into
two three hundred employees and nine million of sales or whatever it is in
even worse. And it is the leader in its field, and all projections show that it really should
reach a hundred million dollars in another five years, and somehow it always bumps against
an invisible ceiling and doesn't grow anymore. That's always the symptom. And the other
symptom is that he says what we just heard, but that's a very, it's still preventable,
but it's late.
Here is Tim Smith, who has started the company,
and let's say, like the first one I met, of this kind,
in nationally advertised branded consumer goods.
And the fellow who built it is a quality genius,
not the word I use often, brilliant in product ideas
and imagination and product development
promotion and you know and then he does one of two things inevitably invariably
one is that these people are that kind of character these are moving people
typically who need a lot of solitude who stew and rule who are not that easily
said human race and typically financially totally unable to perceive
If you give them a balance sheet, they don't really know which side you look at.
They are ideas, they are perceptive people, not analytical, not human, not people.
And here is our Jim Smith, that kind of type, and he can do one of two things, normally he will.
He will, oh, he knows that people matter, and he knows that money matters, and he knows that marketing matters.
But he knows, but he doesn't really see. He is not tuned in on it. On the other hand, he doesn't let anybody do anything. And so he concentrates on product ideas and product imagination and product development and promotion.
And five years later, you have a real mess on your hands.
The company grows, and the doubt grows.
It's financial-based, and you have people problems,
and you have distribution problems
because you move from being distributed
in a few specialty stores into the supermarkets,
and you have no idea how to handle them.
That company can be saved, let me say.
Though the founder usually cannot.
He becomes a casual.
But the company can be saved
Because at least he did part of the important things. The product ideas and product development and promotion have been done very well. The support for his work is lacking. But that is a company, let me say, that typically then sells out to IT&T.
uh oh god help you jim smith is conscientious you know took us off that if you do the wrong thing
you better don't do it well he's conscientious and so he knows people matter and money matters
and marketing matters and so he does it himself oh he's got all those bright kids of 58 you know
They're all too young to be entrusted with real jobs.
Typically, he always says, Tom Cairns over there
is a first grade man, but he isn't quite ready.
Typically, always hear that.
And so he takes on people, decisions, and money,
and marketing, and he is no damn good at it.
Butchers.
But also because he does it so poorly, he thinks forever.
And so he has no time for what he is good at. For his product work. And five years later you have nothing. That company cannot be saved. The shelter.
And by the time you reach a disease state, very hard to see. Prevention is easy. What he has to do is not manage the development of his people.
One can't develop in a vacuum, but it is to sit down personally, alone, and every one of his key associates, let me say, alone at first, thinking one's self alone, one doesn't start thinking in a group, and put down on the back of an envelope, by far the most effective management tool yet, beats a computer.
every time one goes to the computer,
once one knows what to put on, not .
And a back of an envelope one uses
before one knows what to put on.
And one puts down the key activities of this institution.
This, not any institution.
One doesn't go to the textbook and looks
at the typical activities of the manufacturing business
because that what's the key activities we have here in the A, B, C,
Morton Milk Compact.
And then once it's down in two pieces,
and you will find that most of you
have the same items on the agenda.
Or not quite.
But you will also find that you have too many,
and you end up with 28 key activities.
What a circus act, you know.
So you can keep six fold in the air for two minutes, five maybe.
No, organizations are not capable of doing many things.
They need concentration rather than inspiration.
So what are the four or five or six, if you go about five, you'll make me uncomfortable.
That really all is different in this country, in this country.
And that nationally advertised branded consumer goods for a specialty market,
Certainly products, the ideas, and product development and promotion are key activities in that time.
People and money are always key activities.
But here you may say quality control is, you know.
And then the next outfit is maybe something you delegate to way down the line.
It's just a go-no-go problem, nothing at all.
And here you may have customer service, a key activity.
Well, if you make an original equipment supply, you know, customer service, no, we're working with the engineers of the manufacturer into whose product you're giving me goals. That's very important. That's a key activity. Specification.
So what is it? And then one says, if one is your boss, which of these things fit my hand? Top management tasks are in-person. Top management team is like any team person.
Which fit my hand? Which do I do well?
The smart thing, let me say, is that one asks other people.
One can fool one's self very easily.
Very easy to believe that you are doing something well when you are mediocre.
Alright. It's very easy to believe the opposite.
That you are doing something badly because you don't like to do it.
And you may do it superbly well.
It isn't true that we like to do what we do well.
Not at all.
There is a correlation, but it's not one-to-one.
More likely than not that what we do well, we like to do.
But that's all, probability, that's it.
And you will find people who, Albert Einstein,
hated anything to do with mathematics.
He hated, he almost flunked in the German secondary school
because he never did his math homework.
He just hated it, but he did it beautifully.
But his mathematical equations are negate in elegance.
Nobody's ever written equations
with greater mathematical penetrating power.
But he hated it.
He just didn't like to do it.
He loved to play the fiddle,
and you only had to hear him warm.
He was never got beyond the kind of
third grade five-finger exercises.
He butchered music. He had no ear. No coordination. He loved it. He poured out his soul on it.
Who was Schubert whom he loved so much? Fortunately, Schubert was dead.
But he just couldn't. It was ten cents. But he loved it. And he's not a hater.
So one doesn't know what one likes to do. He knew that he couldn't play the piano.
One asks. But one thinks it's true for you. One looks at one's own work and says, what have I done that has a real impact. Here I've developed this product. In a field in which there never was any product differentiated, in which people bought junk and now buy a product that's differentiated, suddenly we have established a new customer demand. That's very, very cheap.
In a field in which nobody has ever been able to have results,
we have results, I have results.
That's the looks for performance.
But one asks, and that part of the key activities is mine.
One does not have to take the responsibility of accomplishment
and competence and authority.
People have their right to expect that you do your best.
But I know that I'm doing my best.
Who in our shop is good at this?
And here's Bernie over there, who runs the plant.
And the plant is incredibly important to us.
It's an assembly shop.
The cost center.
But Bernie is good with people.
And I can't figure out what he does with people.
You see, the people who really know how to manage people,
one can never figure out what they do.
Their secret is that they never open their mouth.
They grunt.
I mean, they don't .
The moment you open your mouth, you're committing sin.
They don't.
They grunt. They have a peasant. They look attentive. God only knows what they're thinking about.
But they know one secret. You know the story of the old rabbi on the holy day?
In New York, he's now retired and very sick. A very wonderful psychologist.
This is Aaron Levenstein's story of the old rabbi, and his father was a rabbi.
Aaron started out with you and lost his faith, became a psychologist, which is another story.
