I was just in the study on the holy day, and the congregation comes in.
Never heard of this stuff.
And first the wife comes in, and she complains to her husband,
it's such a brute, and never has a nice word for her,
and chases every skirt on the block.
And when he comes home, he comes down and says,
when's dinner? Doesn't even watch.
He just gives a horrible life when the old rabbi listens,
and says, yes, my dear, yes, I see, my dear.
Yeah, how much insight you have, my dear.
How much patience, how much kindness.
The good Lord will reward your kindness in heaven.
Then the wife leaves and the husband comes in,
complains about his wife, what the horizon she is.
And how jealous she is,
and every time there's a woman within five miles,
she suspects him of...
And he comes home working in the garment shop all day,
tired, and she never had any interest in what was on the shop, and she never cooked a decent meal for him.
The old rabbi listens and says, yes, I see my son. How much insight you have, how much patience, how much kindness.
Will the Lord reward your kindness in heaven? No sooner is he gone than the rabbi's wife comes in over sitting in the room next door listening.
And she says, Rabbi, what a hypocrite you are.
First the wife comes in and tells you how right she is and how wrong the husband is.
Then the husband comes in and tells you how wrong his wife is and how right he is.
They can't both be right.
The old rabbi nods and says, you are right too, my dear.
That is the secret of managing people.
You know, not laugh at it, but understand that story.
You know, the good analyst doesn't understand it.
He thinks it's funny. It is not a bit funny.
And that's the human story of the human condition, basically.
So, here's Bernie and he's good with people.
Good is the wrong word. Somehow, it works.
And Mike, Mike is still a bookie, and we do need a financial man with $30 million sales.
We have a bookie.
Maybe Mike can't cut it.
We do need somebody who's going to be our financial chief executive,
because I know them very well, and nobody else is, and somebody better.
And I'm still going.
That's the ultimate responsibility and the meat of power.
But I have to learn that if anybody comes to me with a personnel, a people problem,
I say to him, you know, why don't you speak and talk to Bernie over there in the plant
first?
Don't make announcements in small organizations.
You have to say three times to people, don't talk to me about a personnel problem, talk
to Bernie.
The dumbest person knows, then makes the announcement, a year later.
If only because when you make an announcement you have to pay more salary.
And one doesn't, until one knows it works.
One tries it out.
And in any financial matter, you send Mike over to the bank,
and expect him to say, well, we are growing.
What will that mean to our financial structure?
One of the things that goes all the way through is to change your financial structure, not the amount you need to structure.
Here, if we double really, as we project to do in five years, what kind of money will we need?
Because you need five years to change your financial structure.
You need five years before the banks. Banks are not fast. Banks are quite intentionally and properly slow.
You don't advertise. 90 seconds. That's for a mortgage on a house on which you have already given a mortgage.
And you have already paid off one. Otherwise, don't forget to hand out other people's money, and that one doesn't do fast.
That one does carefully. Don't ever trust the banks that advertise you have a friend that they chase Manhattan.
They have no business making friends with your money. None whatever. Banks are slow and shouldn't be. And banks don't understand business because they understand finance. And so business is something very different.
The one needs three years if you need your bank to help you work out a new structure.
And if you want to develop an underwriting relationship that needs three years minimum,
you decide at the last minute whether you're going to place the notes with the pension
fund.
But you have to know what the pension fund would require three years ahead of time, or
you are not ready for it.
strategy is and human strategy have very long need time. One can't improvise or if you
improvise and you are likely to make do the wrong thing and pay a horrible
price. So who and one builds a team before one needs it. The problem of the small
business is that the founder is used to doing everything himself and he has to
learn to work with the team. That takes him three to five years. The first year he's going to interfere,
no matter how hard he tries. The second year he will begin to do a little better. The third year
he will automatically refer things to Bernie. By that time he has come to know he has made a few
your mistakes. Bernie has bailed him out. He understands Bernie. You see, a team depends
on knowing each other. In a team, how many of you play double tennis? Well, you all know
that the first time you play with a new partner, it is horrible, don't you? The second time
it's still pretty bad. It takes how long does it take? My wife was a double tennis player
I said, three months, six, eight, ten times playing before you begin to have a feed.
And then she came home and said, how did it go today?
And she said, you know, Ted so-and-so was off his feed today.
I had to give him closer support.
She knows what his normal game is, and he was off his game today.
And afterwards, on the way home, he told her that he had a problem.
But she knows what his normal game is, you know, and knows that something happened.
He was off his ride today. Didn't feel well or what have you.
But that takes time. If you have more than two people in the team, it takes much more time.
You have to know Jim over there is steady as a rock, too steady.
He doesn't get excited when he should, you know.
You know, there are some people who can't get the fever, the genetic defect.
And it's a serious defect because they're warning signal.
And the signal that mobilizes their bodily defenses doesn't work.
So they're too steady.
So that he keeps on the same pace even when he should break into a gallop.
But you know that he's steady.
And you can put load on him.
And Jim over there is like a yo-yo.
And then, unless he panics at least six times in a row, you pay no attention.
They are annoying to them over there.
But you also understand the story of the old Irish washerwoman, mother of twelve,
who as long as there was help to pay, upstairs went blithely ahead with her laundry.
But when it was quiet, she went to the foot of the stairs and told her,
whatever you are doing upstairs, kids, stop.
You'll get to know that and understand that story, not the story of this fellow over there.
As long as he's excited, there's no... like when he gets quiet, there's something very badly wrong.
And you know, this fellow always starts beautifully and then when it degenerates into work,
he tends to stop, believes that it's done because he understands the problem.
That's when the work begins. And then you have to give him a kick where it hurts, and maybe he'll learn, most of it.
And you also know, and you know that this fellow is prompting. Before he tells you unpleasant things, he hints.
And you get to understand his hints, and you begin to probe, and then it comes out.
That fellow cannot wait the other one to tell you unpleasant things.
That takes time. A team is not something that one can do for that.
So you have to build it before you need it.
And you're already very late.
But don't go in for management development,
because that only frustrates you.
It's going to send them here,
and maybe we, no matter how good or poor a job we do,
we raise expectations, you know.
and then they get back to their company and they can't do anything.
The boss won't let them.
You won't be going there to frustrate the people.
Maybe you're paying them for the competition that way.
No, it says you have reached the point where you have to build the top management you will need
with enough lead time so that people can learn to behave so that when you need it, you have it.
understand each other and also so that the top man can inquire the new way of
behavior and so that they can build a team that have a top management before
you can really pay for one. You may already be big enough to pay for part of one.
I don't know. 30 million sales are not no indication of size. It depends on how
which contributes the value there is if all you do is assemble and you may not
300 people you're not so very good but one has to build it before one needs it or you get
into the growth crisis which very few businesses overcome because they then
start to rush getting a top management way beyond the time when they should
have had one, and then it doesn't work. And that is the reason why they sell out the IT&Ts,
because that's what IT&T has. It has lots of people who have learned to work together,
whom you can send in, who know that they are not team players like double tennis, they
are much more like baseball fixed position players, but they have played on the same
before. They know the game.
Yes, sir?
On the third
rule, they would hardly have bought anything
they bought.
Not one.
I don't see that.
Continental Bakery,
the board market
standing, where's the gross market?
Did you tell me in the bakery?
That's the biggest acquisition.
Hartford was the biggest, wasn't it?
Hartford Insurance,
where's the gross market in Calgary?
Well, it's not only casualty.
Well, and where's the markets then?
Hartford?
Hartford?
No.
That's why it was perceived because it had been going down so nicely that it had a huge
cash growth.
IT&T buys for cash, though.
The rest of the statements make the security analysts.
I've seen enough acquisition.
The one I was closest to, a friend of mine, who had not built a management team,
sold out because he wasn't going to have his time run by any, you know,
he couldn't turn over his own baby to those people in his own company.
He couldn't do it emotionally.
So he sold to IT and IT had market spending.
the market was not growing and it was had about 30% of the market and was
unlikely ever to have much more never had much more and it had no management
because the founder didn't allow it and that is it but it has cash flow
that's a typical ITP acquisition. Litton is a different matter under the present management.
now let me say I think he and all these people are financially or you buy by the
figure and which is not necessarily the worst possible thing not my way and then
the company that you can you cannot get the company cheap unless there is a
reason why it is cheap and the reason is usually that it has been bumping against
this ceiling. All the ITTF subsidiaries in this area are companies that should have five,
ten years before ITAT bought them, have doubled and tripled their volume. You know some of
them pushed against the invisible ceiling because basically the founder had outgrown
his competence and he was not willing to build a management. He had competent technical people
But the only other person in the business who had the key to the men's room was his secretary, in case he lost his.
And there, by the way, that comprehensive financial IT&T approach worked, because there was a lot of milk in that cow.
And you just have better milking machines and you get a lot more milk out.
But they are not grown. ITT has not made a single acquisition growth.
If you deduct in terms of market standing, where they bought in growing markets, they have maintained it.
That's true even for the electronics companies. ITT is the financial manager, not the business manager.
They don't want their companies to grow because growth costs money.
You can't grow without putting in money. IT&T doesn't put money into it. That's why it won't buy a company that doesn't have remuneration.
Because it isn't going to put the money into it.
It's in the financial concept of management in which you take a solid business that is under-managed and therefore doesn't really get the results that are in there
and put the competent technical people in,
professionals who know how to manage it,
and really get optimum yield.
But you don't put capital, never.
And that's what you have to do to get growth.
Who would buy a big bread bakery in Chicago
as a gross industry, would you?
Who would buy a fire casualty and light company in Connecticut?
Anybody know anything about insurance?
Where are insurance companies that grow, do you know?
Texas and California.
Texas and California. Why? Do you know?
The laws.
Well, California is very strange in the north, but the markets are there.
Texas has a rubber north.
But in Connecticut, very, very severe regulation, intense competition.
You are not number one.
You are not going to be number one.
Travelers are not for sale.
And Connecticut generally is not for sale.
And that whole John Hancock group is there, and it ain't for, say, it's hard for the, as a dubious distinction of being the oldest, but the number seven or so. And it had not been able to grow for a long time, so it has an enormous cash stream because it's old policies that give you cash, not new ones.
And that's why an IT&T then buys the cash cup.
The IT&T thought that they could get more cash out
because they didn't realize that life insurance accounting
is a very different brand of accounting,
and they didn't understand the account.
And Hartford actually was so grossly underfunded.
Hartford had been managed,
let's be very blunt among the scales here,
and don't quote me outside,
Hartford had been managed to attract a rich and stupid old husband and the founder.
Hartford had grossly, Hartford ever since I was deported and the insurance commission of the state of Connecticut
played that game. The day after the merger had gone through, he said,
you have 80 million dollars in the hole underfunded on your life insurance reserves and you're 40
million underfunded on your fire account so on the day after the girl was safely
in the and i mean they must have suffered pains of agony when the internal revenue did around
their scene you know and they had to go up to mr nixon to put it through justice department
because the day after that girl was safely married, both in church and in the registry office,
suddenly the bills fell due, and instead of cash flow, it became a cash devourer.
But that happens to people who are purely financial, know nothing about the bills, and never look.
Because everybody in the industry knows this. Everybody who knows how one, everybody who knows how one needs insurance.
They are the trickiest accounts compared to them. Air Force accounting is limpid, crystal clear.
And pubs, compared to them, instead of being the most crooked game in town, which it is.
But insurance accounting is aimed for very similar reasons that you have to express in present terms long to gists. This makes these kinds of accountings so complex. But insurance accountants don't go in as a layman and believe you can win an insurance balance. You can.
If you have ever worked in an insurance company, as I did, you learn to have healthy respect.
I can't read, but I know that I can, and I go to people who can.
And I happen to be a fairly good analyst, financial analyst.
That was painted here, something like that, with the insurance company.
And I think he got covered by his own, somebody very cleverly utilized their weaknesses against him, or their strength against him.
So, but the small business, one can prevent the crisis, but if you're weak and you have it, I don't think it's easy to represent.
So tell your boss that this is now a time to do top management and to train his own people.
Here they don't come to the top management.
Oh yes.
And you know what it is and I don't.
So maybe you come, but I don't.
And the other one, our old and dear friend Ted Rademacher asked,
How can one live with a board, especially in a public service institution?
That is a specific problem.
You know, there are two kinds of boards.
There are boards that don't want to do anything.
They are a problem.
But there are less of a problem than boards that want to do something.
And one that wants to do something.
And that's much worse.
Thank you.
uh except the fact will you not you from the military but you from businesses and public
service institutions like ted senior citizens community or your community just people here
United Way people that it's your job to make the board effective. On the one hand, society
isn't willing to let you run a major business, or even a minor one, without some organ of
accountability for management. And you do need somebody. And on the other hand, if you
If you don't work on making a board effective, it won't work.
It's hard work.
You know, the date is November 1929,
or thereabouts, actually January 1930,
and I've just taken on a job as financial writer for a media paper,
and my first assignment was to cover the trial of the management
What was then the world's leading international life insurance company, which had systematically
looted the company.
And you all think equity funding is a big scandal, and they needed computers.
Well, long before computers, management that really wanted to loot the company knew how
to do it.
And equity funding, they left a little meat on the bones.
not that one, mine. I sat in the courtroom as a very young journalist just a few days after my
20th birthday and here were the chairman of the board was the deputy governor of the Bank of
England and the vice chairman was the chairman of the board of management of the Deutsche Bank,
the leading bank of Europe, and the other vice chairman was the former minister of finance of
France who was president of the leading French bank and so on. This was the blue
blood of European business and everybody at Pianti knew that that
management of that insurance company was looting the company except the board.
They knew nothing. This was, you know, like termites. You don't know you have termites until the house
it disappeared, and all you have is a little saw.
And this was very much like that.
And I thought, my God, there was dumb money,
and there was irresponsible money.
And this has been the story in every financial scandal
of the last 50 years.
Penn Central, or Lockheed, or Equity Funding,
Or the Orsaker-Rittan style in 1931, which brought down the English pound and really converted a recession into a world depression.
Or any of them. The board is the last organ to know.
And then one doesn't talk about having better people on it.
That's a failure of an institution.
And if you look at the board, whether it's a hospital or the university or Ted's board there in a small senior citizen's home or a company, it's a 19th century institution.
The business board is based on the assumption that a business is small and local and single product and has five shareholders, families of founders, each of whom has most of, if not all, their fortune in the business so that their board representative has a real reason to work on it and none of them make any sense anymore.
And Ted's board is based on the assumption that he needs people from the community to raise money.
And he doesn't need any money. Whether it's good or bad, I don't know, but he does.
And here is that hospital we have here, a little down the road in Riverside, Loma Linda.
And if they have a board, do you? You'd have it because you needed responsible citizens to raise money for you.
98% of your expenses you are teaching hospitals, but only 78% are rendered written by third party payors.
And incidentally, don't tell anybody, it's far more expensive today for a community hospital to raise money by charity than to raise money by bondage of the bank. Far more expensive.
And what the university board that was the Presbyterian Church, and you had a Pomona
founded as a church related, I don't know, probably Presbyterian College.
And you had eight divines on the board whose purpose was, A, to make sure that the Presbyterian
Church provided the money to keep Pomona going, and secondly, to make sure that Pomona remained
Orthodox.
neither works anymore and what is the function of the board and so you have a
very reform appendix and as you know the only thing an appendix can do is to go
wrong and yes believe me you need a board you need a board particularly in
of the public services, more than in the business.
In the public service institution,
one thing that is predictable, guaranteed,
is that you're going to be in trouble with the community.
You cannot do a good job unless you do something
the community doesn't understand.
Here you are, the state college,
which I served on the board of,
And you had then a teacher's college, a normal school, and it had a demonstration high school.
And it changed, became the flagship of the New Jersey State University system.
And teacher's education disappeared, but the students had to come to that demonstration high school
in an area of northern suburban New Jersey where there are lots of perfectly good suburban school systems.
And it wasn't only that it cost a mint for 180 students in a demonstration high school.
They paid as much as for 2,000 students in the college.
Very expensive nonsense. But it served no purpose.
And in addition, the younger faculty didn't teach in it.
The old teachers' education people liked it as a demonstration high school.
We couldn't get in it.
And yet when we had to abolish it, the community rose in indignation and protest.
And then they called us board members.
And the Irish citizens said, you dumb so-and-sos.
Didn't you think when you voted to abolish that jewel in our crown?
They said, it's three years of discussion about it.
Every board meeting, two hours on the guard there now.
Half of them already said, as long as you have really thought it through, that's all I wanted to make sure.
The other half said, and you asked us, and then you voted to abolish it.
And then we said, look, we had two choices, and only two.
That college is a state college. Our budget comes from the state. We don't print our own money.
We all know that. And we have enough money in the budget to keep going.
They're one and only speech clinic in all of metropolitan New York.
The only one.
Or a demonstration high school and there are damn good high schools in every single town
in the area.
Which ones do we abolish?
Well, then they say, oh, we didn't know that.
And we had 16 lawsuits were started and all of them were withdrawn.
That's the function of the board.
When the California University went up in flames in 1968, with very little inflammatory
matter, we had so much Tinder and so much TNT, having moved from being lily white to
being 40% or 60% black in four years, and from having 400 students to having 7,000 in
seven years.
You know what that does?
and we had no trouble because we just took it each of us board members took
the names of 400 or what have you kids and their parents and called up the
parents and said look if your kid started to make trouble in that to tell
him to lay off or tell her to lay off those people up they are trying to do a
decent job you know though they're not succeeding in everything but they're
All right, we had a couple of panty rates, which is what you like to have in a major, you see.
If you don't have panty rates, it means there's something very seriously wrong.
But you don't want anything else, you know.
And University of California had no board because the great man who designed the university system,
was his name, a very big man. Totally unknown because that's the way he wanted it. Ruled
out boards for individual campuses in 1920s because he was afraid they would become political.
And they paid a heavy price because Santa Barbara and San Diego and none of them had
any community channel. And the chief executives, let me say, need somebody he can talk to.
He can't talk to his subordinate. Accept it. You all want to be very, very with your subordinate.
Don't. Realize the fact that what you say to your subordinate immediately becomes holy written.
You know that, don't you? You know here you go down in the elevator and here is Jim who just flew up from Fort Worth,
was your salesman in Fort Worth and you've been talking to him about is he a
very good statement for this and you've been talking to him was introducing say
new product because you have decided to introduce it in Fort Worth because
Jeremy's that kind of a thing and it was down in the elevator with you and this
is boss in two years from now that regional sales manager for the
the southwestern U.S. is going to retire, isn't it?
Boss, I hope you're going to consider me for that job.
And the last thing you're going to do is to put Jim in.
Jim is a damn good salesman, don't you?
The last thing you want him to be is to sit behind the desk.
That's one way of destroying a good salesman.
It's not as bad as taking a good physician
and making him a dean of the medical school,
but it comes close.
And, you know,
What do you say? You say, Jim, you know it's our policy to consider everybody. And you think you have politely said no. What Jim heard is yes. And you know it, don't you? You've more been in Jim's show than in his boss' show.
And you can't, in order to adjourn a staff conference that's been going on for three hours when it should have lasted eight minutes,
most staff conferences after 10, you'll make a half-hearted joke that maybe we'll bring in a management consulting firm
to study our consumption of toilet paper. Maybe, you know, we think that's a joke. It isn't.
The next day everybody knows McKinley & Company is going in here to study toilet paper.
You know it, don't you? And one cannot be in that circumstance.
So you need somebody where you can sit down and say,
I'm God damned if I understand this problem, but you know,
we thought that this, we went into this because our customers put pressure on us
give them an additional service.
We went into it as an accommodation to customers
and the damn thing is snowballing.
The most successful thing we ever did
and I don't understand.
I don't know what we are doing.
You know what I'm talking about?
Actually, somebody has been through this
because this works.
You know what I'm talking about too.
Or you say, but I don't understand.
But it's very hard to do with support.
One cannot think out, you know,
The first draft, an old saying, one has to do between four walls.
One doesn't do first drafts in public.
The dress rehearsal, yes, but the first walk on rehearsal,
the damn sure nobody listens.
You have to talk to somebody.
If only to hear yourself talk, to hear the echo.
You have to go to somebody where you say,
I have those two key people. And Jim, every assignment I've given Jim, he's come out a superstar. But unless I give him the assignment, Jim sits on his rear end. He waits. And here is Jane.
And two out of three of the assignments Jane has handled have become a cropper.
Or even one out of three.
But you know, Jane comes to me and says, we should be doing something.
And I am totally bothered. There is nothing I can do.
Jim is this way. He is a star performer, if there is a quote.
And Jane, in the sense, thought that she has no judgment.
What do I do? Siamese twins always have to have the same sex.
What you want is Siamese twins.
What do you do? And you have to think
it through. Or here is that all prisoners
of ours, we have been in this 989 years and it's
doing beauty for them. That's called a maternity, because that's it. It's a cash cow, but it
ties up resources, and we don't make a contribution, and not very far down the road, it's going
to be gone. Should we stay in it as long as we get to return, or should we say, we don't
make a contribution anymore, that's a new, that's a motel-type business, that's a nursing
Let's get out of here. Not tired of many. And then shift our resources into taking care of really concentrated of the number of problem infants, problem babies that are being born as a result of our being so good and obstetrics.
That's a major shift of business. But you don't understand that. And you don't want to talk about it. You're not going to upset your obstetricians till you are ready. You're not going to upset your pediatricians either because there's concentrated baby care systems they can't do either.
You need to train new people, new services.
You're not going to upset them.
And yet you have to think it through.
Then you need to be able to sit down and talk.
That's a function of the board.
And let me be very blunt.
It is a function of the board to move you out as a chief executive
if you are not up to snuff.
And if there's a succession crisis,
it's over this.
That's a function.
So you need a board for your community relations
so that you don't lose sight of the community.
We are Montclair State in New Jersey knew the community
and our administration did because there was a functioning hard-working force.
Not necessarily very bright, this one was.
But the one down in Jersey State wasn't,
in Jersey City wasn't terribly bright at work as they were.
They worked hard, that's more important.
We brought the community to the presidential.
he didn't make serious mistakes in those very tricky days in 1967-69.
Oh, and the University of California, much easier administration.
Nobody brighter than Claude Coeur in Berkeley,
and Meyerson, who is now, Martin, who is now President of the University of Pennsylvania.
They were absolutely totally incomplicated,
because they had lost all track of time.
They had no board.
The regents are, you know, the regents are ranked above the choir of our angels and communicate with you in the same fashion.
But you have to work on your board. It's your job to think through what is the task of the board.
You don't have a board that doesn't have a work program that you have written.
Now, they have to accept it, but you have to develop.
If not, you have got the choice between a board that's incompetent,
that will let you down in a crisis, or a board that becomes busy and like Ted's board.
Ted's board doesn't interfere with what he's doing for a very simple reason.
They make damn sure that he can't do anything by tying up all his time.
Well, then you don't have to interfere with what that is doing because you can't do anything.
But that, you think through what is the function of your board, what is the task, what do you really expect of them.
And then you look at your board, who are the few people in the board who want to come to you, and to whom you have a rapport, and you sit down with them and you say, look, you have been meeting every day of the week for three hours every night.
You know, I sat on the Montclair State Board and on the Board of Higher Education in Jersey State, and the Montclair State Board met every week.
It was a new board, just built the state college system. They went every week from 5 to midnight, one evening.
And all we ever did for three years was to vote on maternity leave for Spanish instructors.
And I said to that very tough guy who represented the State Board, who sat in on our meeting,
do we have to do that bullshit?
And she said, yes.
And I won. I was chairman of the board.
I won a hard fought battle.
We didn't have to have those poor guys in to testify.
Originally they had to come in and I think,
What they expected us to do was to ask him to unrobe and see whether they were pregnant or not.
I don't know. And they said, what happens if we don't vote?
And she said, well, the state laws say she gets maternity leave anyhow.
It took me three years of hard work to get permission to vote on all of them in one motion.
We wasted all our time in the important things we didn't do.
Terribly difficult things, important.
The President needed us on curriculum, on direction, on faculty, on organization.
We were willing to work hard, but he didn't let us,
because he didn't think through what we were supposed to do.
But we finally took the risk, and I think that we did.
At that time, I was no longer chairman.
The chairman was one of the evilest black men I've ever worked with, wonderful man,
who was a physicist, physical chemist by lab.
He and I kind of rammed it through.
And another black girl who is now superintendent of schools in Hartford,
Edith Gaines, wonderful, toughest gal I've ever worked with.
The damn grads are not the subordinates.
No danger, she's never hired them.
It's really rammed in through.
Then suddenly they're voting in the country.
A board needs a work program and objectives
and a clear understanding of what it is supposed to be doing.
And then one sits down and says,
look, you want 97 committees on the board
because you want to keep everybody happy. The Boy Scout system of administration, there are three systems of administration in the world.
One is the Chinese, the only one that works, which is don't tell anybody anything and keep them divided.
Everybody, that was how Henry Louis spent time, life, and fortune, and nobody could figure out why, because he grew up in China.
That's very much how FDR ran its administration, and on its mother's side, it's the China family.
The Delenos were China's fates.
Don't ever tell them anything, and keep them divided.
That's the Chinese system.
That's a language you have to keep in control, without the absentee management.
It also limits what you can do.
The other one is the Boycott system.
Put everybody on four committees and you can't do any harm.
On one condition, that those committees do not meet with the chief executives present.
As long as they meet, you know, by having a committee, I know damn well they aren't going to do anything.
The risk, you know, of a committee ever coming to a decision is small,
provided the loan puts one of those widows on, who have nothing else to do.
But if you have a tradition that the team will get to know the management after the
president has committed, then that system needs to be spent all the time, taking in
meetings that discuss this trivia, such as whether to replace the Dorianda tree on Passway
8 that hasn't had flowers for four years.
All right.
You know, you get around to it when you get around to Passway 8, next year, year after.
And then so what?
only has leaves and no flowers. Committees like trivia because you never need a decision
and you can keep on talking forever about trivia. So they always like it. And maybe
you settle that by having everybody on a committee and lay down the rule that each committee
twice a year reports to the committee of the whole and then you are present. Then you prevent
and otherwise they need, without being influenced by that malevolent influence of the chief executive,
who otherwise would try to dominate them.
Oh, and then encourage committees, but the moment they need you to be present,
realize that they don't do any work and won't allow you to do any.
And the sales management system is a management, which so far exists only in books, you know.
What we have in reality is either Boy Scouts or Chinese. But you do need an effective force.
You need it because every organization sooner or later gets into trouble.
And then you need somebody who can say to the community, lay off these people, they are trying to do a job.
You need it because in every organization you have a succession crisis.
and accept the fact that they're strong as a leader, they're more difficult to success in Christ.
Strong leaders do not breed strong successors. They breed a system.
Yes, Mr. McKenzie.
Yes, inside port and outside port.
Well, you need an outside port, basically. An inside port is just a management committee.
It's just a legally sanctioned form of instance.
I can't hear you.
You were saying something about strong leaders bring what?
Bring the succession crisis.
Every book tells you that strong leaders should raise strong successors,
and it happened very rarely in the history of the world.
It is not impossible.
But Julius Caesar did not raise Augustus.
Augustus, if Augustus had, if Julius Caesar hadn't been assassinated,
there wouldn't have been an Augustus.
There would have been a Morganton.
And Augustus left behind, who was the next one?
Nero?
Yeah, wasn't it?
What?
Yeah.
Tiberius.
Tiberius.
It's in Nero.
What?
Calvius and then Nero.
Calvius didn't last very long.
But, you know, Tiberius.
And it is one of the miracles of political history that the Roman Republic, the Roman Empire, had a succession of leaders beginning with Tyon in 78 B.C. A.D.
and ending with Marcus Aurelius a hundred years later, where you had five successors, where each leader bred and raised a strong successor.
That's one of the miracles. There's no other. And it is not totally impossible. And one of the reasons why George Marshall is one of my heroes is that he did it. And consciously. He wasn't afraid of them on the one hand. And he also restrained himself. But it's very rare.
And if you're left behind a vacuum, which the Democratic Party hasn't filled yet, if you don't mind by saying so, that is typical of the strong leaders.
and then you need a board that can move and can make sure that the strong leaders,
Chief Turk doesn't get to be successor, no.
Strong leaders look for carbon copies and carbon copies are weak.
Or they look for helpers who have never made a decision
because they always relied on the strength of the strong man.
That's typical. Then you need a board. And then let me say there is no way in which you can know in advance whether somebody will work out in the top spot or top spot.
There is no way, partly because no chief executive, whether you are talking of the American president or of the ABC grocery store,
had ever come in and been faced by the contingencies which he prepared for.
Every American president since George Washington has found within a year of taking over that his real challenges were not what he prepared for.
Jefferson came in absolutely determined to be concerned only with domestic affairs.
Well, you know, Napoleon didn't allow him that luxury, as the British, and if there ever was a president who had no interest in foreign affairs in American history, it was Lyndon Johnson. Lyndon Johnson thought that he was already exceedingly cosmopolitan by being interested in what went on in Arkansas, beyond what was on...
No, a great man, we don't write him off, as a truly great man, totally defeated by a world he didn't make and by loyalty to the Kennedy members.
What defeated him, Johnson said he couldn't fire those goddamn Kennedy survivors who had no respect for a redneck from Texas because he didn't have a Ph.D.
Those damn arrogant snobs.
And he should have fired every one of them.
Day two, not day three, day one all right, but day two you're fired, and bring in people who were sick.
And he didn't leave. He had that tremendous labyrinth of the Kennedy Memorial.
And they betrayed him, they sold him down the river.
So, in it, there were the challenges of a major war. Vietnam War was a major war, thanks to the Kennedy legacy.
John Kennedy made it, if you want, totally empty. And the dollar crisis and a few other things.
He came to the presidency determined to finish off the U.D. domestically, and he did that.
But that's what the U.S. is. And that is typical. And Johnson's great weakness was that he didn't exist.
Truman's great strength was that he did, that he did not say this is what I set out to do, but this is what the situation demanded. And so a very mediocre Truman became a very substantial president, not a very big one, and a giant.
