And so the kind of duration is great,
and the board has a duty not to put up with mediocrity,
to take up to it.
But the great one, there's a myth behind it,
that you have to continue.
General Motors is still managed by Arthur Jones, you know.
He is.
That's the chairman, he's 25 years old, he's still managing it.
And quite true, in that boardroom, in that executive committee room, with the face up to the top,
somebody said, what would Sloan have done?
Unless you really believe in spiritualism, the question is the meaning of it.
And if you do, you're in the company of the Grand Establishment of France.
France was run by me. That's true.
Born to P. Dyer in 1937, and for 12 years after, the dominant figure in Christ,
Nick Kelly, son of Florence Kelly, he was a corporation lawyer, one of the greatest lawyers I've ever met.
He was a lawyer who wanted people to know when he bought the Chrysler Building in New York, that real estate.
I was so impressed that they hired him as a lawyer for Chrysler and executive vice president.
And Nick Kelly believes in spiritualism.
That's the generation of his mother, that's the generation of 1900.
And literally, whenever the question came up, Nick Dilley retired or died around 1962 or so, but he went into a seance in the medium and established a poem, he said, Spirit of Theoportopoeia, and found out that mortopoeia was a sign, and came in and said, mortopoeia has decided this way.
That's one of the main reasons why Christ Alex made the way.
They made the decision, what the people would have made in 1935,
or the condition of 1935,
but they were not necessarily the right decision for 1965.
And if Walter Peer survived, I can assure you, he wouldn't have made them this way.
But that's always a problem, a very strong need.
And then you need a group that's willing to make that space,
and willing to say, he was a great man, but he's gone.
Build a booth, but it's your job.
Don't pretend that you won't do it. You won't.
Does that answer your question?
In a way, I know I'm going to get into trouble,
but you might at least be in trouble if you can work it out, it's productive.
And let me say, the one situation not to get in
is to be that of the clown in the circus
who runs after the elephant with the dustpan.
Don't get into the situation where one keeps on doing things totally unproductive forever.
Then one risks a showdown. One risks a confrontation. One risks looking for another job.
There are two things one doesn't do. One doesn't wait for dead man's shoes.
Don't ever stay in a job where you say in another seven years the son of a witch will have retired.
By that time you will be corrupted and broken.
Eighteen months all right, maybe. Two years maybe, but not more.
Man doesn't wait for that man's shoes. It's corrupted. It's destroyed. It's deformed.
You lose your self-respect. You lose your enjoyment of the world.
That's why the vice-presidency of the United States, structurally, is such a badly designed job.
The only thing in it you can do is hope for the thought attack.
And the other thing one doesn't do is to consign oneself to perpetual frustration.
If you find yourself, Mr. Dustpan, running after the elephant in the circle,
For eight minutes, you know, that's all you're doing in the service.
And you give the elephant an animal before you let him go.
Don't forget that. That's part of the act.
So that you perform. You perform, then you perform.
And it's over in six minutes, till the next night.
That's fine. But to do that 24 hours a day without an animal, no.
That's frustration.
Then my face is up to it and I say, look, this board is forming 87 committees so that everybody is busy.
What they don't realize is that they expect me to be at every garden committee.
They see only that meeting, each of those groups, every three months.
But I have 87 meetings in three months.
Three months is 113 times five, 65 days, working days.
And I have seven to eight boards meeting every three weeks.
I've got one board meeting each day, each class in three and a half hours,
each taking up the question whether power should be forwarded twice or four times.
And I can't afford it. I've got to run the place.
Then one goes and says, let's just meet.
I sit in on every trip's coming.
And I promise you I'll be there.
In between, I'll get the minutes.
And if I have a question, I call the chairman of the company.
But here is my time.
I have a full-time job, 40 hours in the week,
and I've got to spend 62 hours on it anyhow.
And I get constant criticism from my people that I'm not available.
I can have one board meeting a week, and so I keep in touch with you.
And I organize it so that my secretary calls you up the day after your meeting and says,
what went on, things that I know. And if you need me, I'm always available,
but I'm not going to attend everyone or prepare for everyone. And if you need somebody to prepare
for a committee meeting, they put a clerk on the payroll, and I tell you how to do it.
We get one of those MBAs from Claremont who haven't learned anything and are ready to start, so that we don't have to pay them too much.
It's the best training job.
They are then ready to be dean of women, but they cannot do any, but anyhow, only harm.
So we get rid of them again.
And I put her in as secretary to the committee.
Then she can attend every committee meeting.
She has nothing else to do.
And she learns, and it's worth the silence.
And she quickly asked for it.
All right, I can tell you just have another $18,000, $22,000 position in the budget
and don't call her a clerk anymore, call her an assistant system manager.
And you can pay less.
So, but don't, but don't come to a question.
All right, next question.
When you're trying to make a decision about selling a...
Can you all hear him?
When you're trying to make a decision about filling a position, either from inside or
from outside, what are the key elements that really should go into that thing?
On making people decisions, will you please look at my book management? We know
how to make them, and you don't. And the few people who make good people decisions
showed us how one can learn, and it's easy. It's simple. It's one of the few things
wants to follow the rules and you're almost certain to come out right transfer how do you
transfer technology company to another time how do you transfer technology from one part of the
large company to another does anybody know how to do it if you do don't tell us set yourself up
with the consulting business which costs 25 000 dollars a day minimum nobody knows that do you
No. No, that's one of them. The transfer of technologies sounds so beguiling. How does
it happen? There are very funny things. Here a friend of mine, Peter Constantine, an English
surgeon, went to Nigeria in 1963 to run the new university hospital in Nevada. And Peter
Kostam is a good surgeon, but not a great surgeon.
And yet in the balance today,
you have what is perhaps the world's best brain surgeon.
And there was a transfer of skin,
and I, by I know this, Kostam is retired,
and went, he and his wife are from the Outer Hebrides,
and she's living there up in,
just retired from the British National Health Services,
70 now, but he transferred the most advanced surgeon.
And he was totally unsuccessful
and teaching them how to make things.
That's how it is, very difficult.
And in certain areas, you all think the Japanese
are very good at learning foreign technologies.
Yes and no.
They have been remarkably,
everything said is mechanical and electronic.
The Japanese company have forward money
into the pharmaceutical industry
and they have not achieved anything.
It's sad people, but the two or three
or four leading medical schools in Japan
are as good as any in the world.
Hiroshima, number one, Kyoto, very strong in biochemistry.
Pharmaceutical industry doesn't work.
Now, you may guess that a pharmaceutical industry
needs an interplay between business and university.
The two countries that are strong in pharmaceuticals,
the three will be Switzerland, Switzerland, Germany,
US are countries where university and business
in pharmacology, biochemistry work closely together
with constant transfer of people from one to the other.
And in Japan, you don't.
If you're in a university,
you never get into industry and vice versa.
You're mis-speculating.
Why?
We don't understand it.
Why has NASA, NASA has spent more money
on transfer of technology than has been spent
on this task in the history of mankind.
They spent money, nobody else has ever spent money on it.
Any transfer of technology from NASA
to the civilian economy, and I went,
everything, what happened, we don't know.
Here you have, anybody here from GE or can we speak for you?
GE developed most of the electronic content
that converted electronics from being
applicable to low voltage,
to being low voltage control of high voltage.
You know what I'm talking about, anybody here?
They were the one company that could not
could not introduce electronics into switchgear.
You know, this is the ideal application.
The Swedes took GE's technology and put it into switchgear.
The Swiss did, Siemens did, even Westinghouse did.
GE couldn't do it.
The switchgear division will remain dedicated
to electromechanical switching.
The good Lord has ordained on that seventh day
when some of you mistakenly believe he arrested.
And then it is clear that he was, over time, writing company policies.
The good Lord has all these.
Switching of power stations has to be a mechanic.
And this poor, then unbelievable amount of money and talent
into improving electromechanical switching,
they were fined by brute force order from the top. But in order to do this, they had to set up
a separate division. The electromechanical division had 70% of the market
market in Sweden and lost it, got them all, they're back again, and they couldn't do it.
They were dedicated to electromechanical and knew that electronics couldn't work
and TS Bell are developing the transistor and no American company including Bell picked it up.
It took Sony to pick it up for every American company knew that this was the technology of
the future but it wasn't quite ready yet my sony which had no technology but which took a look at
the market and saw them at the american market and saw that american kids were carrying huge
radios into the wilderness you know with tubes carrying 90 pounds of electron tubes
but maybe maybe the transistor isn't ready yet but the american customer is
I took over the American market, one of that generation when I was big said, we're after
the war.
So, you know, we don't understand the transport.
And this is not new.
The historians are totally puzzled by why certain technologies traveled so fast in the
past.
Anybody know the technology that traveled the fastest in the past?
In 1772, Friar Roger Bacon, in the remote wilderness,
the howling wilderness of northern England in Yorkshire,
where to which he was banished by his order,
because of his, his experiments were very heretical.
And in order to protect him, not to punish him,
they sent him from the center,
which was Charlottesville, France,
where he was deputy Friar,
up there to head this adiab in northern Yorkshire,
where nobody knew where it was, you know.
There were some wolves up there and some bears, but they were not taken care of, they were orthodoxy.
And so the Franciscan friar sent him up there, and he made those experiments which he never published on optics,
which conclusively disproved Galen's theory of vision, and the Galen's theory which was gospel truth.
There was no mechanical correction of ideas. It wasn't possible.
Roger Baker's optical experiment, theoretical optics,
in which he then do theoretical correction for old age.
He was, by that time, 16, so he needed reading glasses.
Five years later, we have paintings of cardinals in Avignon
and of elderly sages at the court of the Sultan in Cairo
wearing glasses for the correction of old age vision,
reading glasses, five years.
That's an incredible time, and it's sterile,
which enabled people on horseback to fight on horseback.
Without the stirrup, what happens if you use an ass,
you know?
They didn't know mutiny at all,
but they soon found out that to every action
is there's a reaction.
Before that, you used the horse to ride to the battlefield,
but then you dismounted and fought on foot.
The stirrup is, well, up there in the northern Persia,
ask and step it area.
And between the 19th and 11th century,
they spread like wildfire.
And why the hell did they take the grinding wheel, the water wheel?
The Persians had cenoria, the water wheel of antiquity.
It was about 10% of the water would fall down.
Then the Benedictines, we know that.
Some place in France, 9th century,
developed both the undersung and the oversung modern wheel.
You know, it took almost a thousand years to carve it to time.
The windmill is Mediterranean, and if you go,
but the Dutch in the 12th century made it something
one can use because it's adjusted to the direction of the wind. You all know that windmill, don't you?
You go into Crete today, you go up into the highlands of Crete, they have the old windmill.
The Dutch windmill didn't travel. Why not? They used the windmill.
Windmill only supply of power in Crete, in the whole east of Mediterranean.
In this very modern time, constant trade with the Netherlands,
the rest of the world. And thousands of people must have seen
the Dutch windmill. They went to Belgium, they went across
the channel to England, they went into northern France, wherever you have a level country
with a constant wind, they came over here to the prairie. The Mediterranean structure
that will reach eight hours out of every ten doesn't turn at all because the wind direction
is wrong, and you can't change it. It looks awfully picturesque, and it makes a wonderful
photograph for American tourists, but that's about the only thing it does. It doesn't pump
water most of the time. In a dry country, why isn't it? All agriculture is irrigation. Why didn't it travel? No, no religion, no magic, nothing connected with the wind. It just didn't travel, period. Now you can write many books about it, both of them have to do it. Why those Cretan peasants up there in the highlands, they didn't have access to the travelers in the 40s? Absolutely not.
The small island, they are Greeks, there are no class barriers, nothing.
One son was stayed on the town, he found the next one, went down to the port city, became a sailor,
but couldn't possibly live on those stony acres.
It wasn't that much.
And he came back and he went, what happened?
We don't know.
Transport technology is something we do not understand.
And we don't know how to make it happen.
All we know is that at certain times certain technologies travel fast.
Today, for instance, medical technology travels incredibly fast, incredibly fast.
There is a surgeon in Czechoslovakia who develops a mechanical knee and they travel to England and they perfect it.
And in no time at all, they're doing it in Los Angeles, maybe too fast occasionally.
Or as we said, neck implants and so on.
So medical technology, no transfer problem today.
Wasn't 200 years ago.
Here it's summarized in Vienna, developing the principles of antisepsis in 1837 or what have you.
It had to be rediscovered in London, 40 years later didn't travel at all.
So medical technology today travels fast, it did not travel fast in the past.
On the other hand, in the 19th century, mechanical technology traveled very fast, faster than today.
So we don't understand. That doesn't answer your question, Mr. Materno.
uh it is one of the most fascinating stuff but don't but it may be too early you know one can
try to tackle a problem too soon anybody know the biggest money ever spent ever donated to medical
research the largest thing was some in 1823 there was an englishman whose wife had died of cancer
of the womb so he donated his entire fortune 16 million pounds sterling anybody got any idea how
how much money that was. The British government budget that year was 8 million pounds, including
the Royal League. Now if you translate to the modern times, there's a couple of billion,
easily, through the Queen's Hall of Hospital for Cancer, which still exists, and it's been
only 10 to 15 years under the terms of his will, and not long is that forever, because
you can't do any cancer research unless you have a sense here. Now the sense here is just
going back in 1865 or thereabouts, 1870,
and without the concept of a cell.
All people had seen them in the microscope,
but nobody had, they'd used the cell from it.
You can't do any cancer research.
Cancer is a cell phenomenon.
What do you research if you have no cell theory?
You make slides and pop and pickle them in alcohol
and stain them and give them cancer names,
which still plague us because the terminology
of cancer is perhaps an impediment to understanding cancer
rather than a health issue.
That's all you can do.
You can spend money, but you can't get results.
There's a basic keystone missing.
You're opening all the wrong doors.
And maybe the transfer of psychology belongs to the cancer.
We don't understand yet whether technology
is a social phenomenon or an economic
or a scientific or not.
So what is it that you have to trigger for the transfer?
All you know about Mr. Materna's question
is that you do transfer.
If you don't try to transfer technology,
you transfer people.
That technology comes with people, not with paper.
That we do know.
That if you take some of your people in that division
that had learned how to paint a fermentation process
and making paper that destroys paper
and transfer it to where they have problems
with fermentation processes,
you have a better chance of getting something done
than if you just have a conference.
That we do know, but it's a hard way of doing it
because like most transplants,
most of them are being rejected.
You put those people at risk,
chances are that they'll be rejected
as a foreign body by the new division.
But they want to fix it. Very risky. And you better stand ready to rescue these people.
Because if you let them die, let them die, the next batch won't be willing to move on.
If you do that, you commit yourself to rescue.
And if you get into trouble, three out of four are likely to be infected.
Maybe two out of five, nobody knows a percent.
the manager of that department to transfer?
Could you get the manager to transfer?
I don't know.
I mean, could you transfer a manager
thereby not having to reject?
I think it's just as easy to reject a manager
as it is to reject an engineer.
In fact, it's easier, isn't it?
Much easier to organize sabotage against the boss
than you can tell anybody else.
I'm not sure.
But there's a knowing, you see, one of the problems
of technology transfer is that you have to demonstrate.
Here are people, look, here are people
who have spent all their adult lives working for me,
making paper a little more efficient, a little faster.
They know all about making paper.
And the new technology, in effect, says,
why do we have to pump the entire Ohio River into pulp
only to sweat it out again?
You know, a paper machine is the world's largest steam iron.
That's all it is.
It's just, you just, you know,
isn't there a way in which we can build the process
without yielding paper, without using that much water?
Either we use, of the water we use,
about 1% goes towards forming the hydrogen bomb.
The hydrogen bomb, 99% goes to be steamed out again.
Or maybe we can cut it down to one tenth of the water needed after the hydrogen bond is formed by one percent of the water we pump into the pipe.
Or maybe we can do it totally, another bond, electrostatic bonds for instance.
Or maybe we get rid of cellulose as a raw material.
Or maybe we finally learn how to polymerize pulp.
The cellulose is a, but it brings it clearly a monomer.
Why can't we polymerize it?
After all, that's what we have done with rayon.
They're polymerized with fiber.
Why can't we polymerize it some other way
and get the people one daughter?
And you bring the fellow who knows this,
let's assume we know how to do it, we don't,
into the people.
Why, you know, you're all those people makers.
It worked 20 years to learn how to do the impossible.
And it works most of the time.
And you're depriving them of their skill.
The satisfaction lies in doing something terribly differently
than some young squirt can do.
But there is an easy way of doing it.
You're destroying their ego, it's just satisfaction.
And so you have that problem.
But at least you can demonstrate.
The manager can only order you.
You can't tell them how to do it, you see.
Also, it may not be easy, it may be more difficult.
But also, yes, you take a manager and put him in there,
but they have so many other things to do.
This is a full-time job.
No, I don't think it's that.
I don't think we know how to do it.
We don't understand why indefinitely,
in everything where there is so much failure,
failure. One doesn't look to understand failure. One looks for the successes. One says, now
where are the people who, where does it work? All of us break our goth and back and it never
works. Where are the people who do the apparently impossible with no sweat? And then what can
we learn from them what do they do that we don't do and what do they not do that we do.
So where does technology transfer work? It works today in two areas beautifully, three
perhaps. No problem. You have no problem in electronics. If you listen to our electronics
people, it works too well. They scream about the Japanese being out to beat them. They
about the fact there's no sooner have we in Texas Instruments developed something
than somebody up in Palo Alto does it is half the cost there it works only to
with let me see the secret of that industry is that is an industry of
fogos it's a migratory in this you look at let's call it in telephone mental in
In Santa Clara, half of their people come from Fairchild, the other half comes from Texas Instruments.
Then you look at Fairchild now, half of their people now come from Intel.
In other words, you don't work for an employer. You take your job with you.
And you have that on the working level. This isn't at the management level.
working level everybody knows everybody and here you are in Memorex or what have you and you need
somebody who knows how to put 5000 bits of information on an even smaller chip and you
remember al over there at intel or what have you or joe at ti and these are engineers and by
definition don't understand anything about money but are greedy and so you even option contract
in front of their nose and say phone for it every time.
That gives you
technology traps. Yes sir?
How do I see the impact of changing the time? And I can give you, instead of
giving you a long speech, in early May or
June, the Georgetown University Center of
Strategic Studies is going to publish a big monograph of mine about
40 pages up, or now the fixed retirement age is gone, okay? Much easier. I don't know what
they're going to sell it for, but it isn't going to be much, and it goes on a company
account anyhow. No, and the other industry is aviation. Technology transfer is no problem
in the aviation industry at all, and we don't know why, because there is not that. There
you don't have that kind of migratory labor, not to the same extent, but they're all looking
over their shoulders, they're all dedicated to doing it different, they're all out to
obsolete themselves, and the surgeon today is medicine, and especially surgery, and there
we don't understand it, we don't know what the mechanism is, except that the information
is readily available and in a way the surgeon in bristledorf does not compete with the surgeon in
los angeles so the new technology is no threat to anything but it wasn't 200 years ago information
was always good exceedingly good and the surgeon in bristledorf was no threat to the surgeon in
new york 100 years ago either and it traveled very slow but it was tremendous with this and 200 years
The innovator did it, successfully, and when he died, nobody had taken up.
As the change began, we know the date of the change.
The first innovation in medicine that was picked up by others was not in medicine but in hospitals.
The first modern hospital, which is the Viennese General Hospital,
in 1768, Frank, was picked up almost immediately, within 20 years, but it was really popularized
in Napoleon, 50 years ago. But that is the beginning of medicine becoming open to technological
transfer, and it kind of accelerated until now it reached the speed of light practice.
Next question? No. Time for one more short question, a very short answer. Yes, sir.
I can't hear you. I'm sorry.
The relationship between the world and one.
It went all the way to the bottom.
Yeah.
Yeah. Post-tax.
How that's felt?
In this country.
Yes.
The Soviet Union, it's about 40 to 1. In China, it seems to be 70 to 1.
Anybody knows Pareto's Law? What Pareto's Law?
What? Pareto's law is that the income distribution of any society is determined not by law and not by policy, but by the level of wealth.
That the poorer the society, the greater the inequality. The richer the society, the more closely they become to equality.
and this is perfect, the correlation, and the Soviet Union is still basically a very poor society, and so there are no income taxes in the Soviet Union,
and an enormous number of perks taxed are free, so there are inequalities between the head of a 5,000-man plant and the rank and file,
I think coming forward to about 40 to 60, and including the fact that the boss's son goes to a, gets into the high school and university and to work a son does not. And that is exceptionally, the boss's son gets in and it is exceptionally not.
And in China it's much greater. And in Brazil it's much too great.
So, but we in this country are guilty of conceiving the degree of equality we have.
We fought it because we present our figures in pre-tax,
distorts them greatly, and partly because of a very small number of exceedingly large
pre-tax compensation packages, the sole purpose of which is the pyramid, you know?
The fellow at the head of PM has to get more than the executive vice president, has to
get more than the vice president.
That's all play money.
Uncle Sam takes it all.
But it's states' money.
But it's the state's money. The state's money is real, and the economic money is play money.
In order to enable the foreman to get $18,000, GM, with its extreme layering, has to go up
to $500,000 pre-tax for the big boss, and that creates an absolutely wrong and dangerously
impression of a society of extreme inequality. And I think it's a very dangerous, stupid thing to do.
Okay, let me say that I hope to see some of you in the hall, and all of you at our party in May.
We are going to have one, don't we? Yes. What? We even have set a date. I'm glad you can know.
Otherwise, I would hear of it, if our office works efficiently on May 11th, they call me up.
What day of the week is it?
I have a calendar, May 12th, hooray.
Thanks, and till then.
